The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Girl's Own Paper, Vol. XX, No. 1027,
September 2, 1899, by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Girl's Own Paper, Vol. XX, No. 1027, September 2, 1899

Author: Various

Release Date: August 24, 2021 [eBook #66128]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Susan Skinner, Chris Curnow, Pamela Patten and the Online
             Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE GIRL'S OWN PAPER, VOL. XX, NO.
1027, SEPTEMBER 2, 1899 ***




[Illustration: THE GIRL’S OWN PAPER

VOL. XX.—NO. 1027.]      SEPTEMBER 2, 1899.      [PRICE ONE PENNY.]




“UPS AND DOWNS.”

A TRUE STORY OF NEW YORK LIFE.

BY N. O. LORIMER.


[Illustration: ADA.]

_All rights reserved._]


CHAPTER I.

Ada Nicoli was just eighteen when my story opens. She was the daughter
of a wealthy New York stock-broker, who took little thought of the
welfare of his wife and children. Indeed, he had little time to devote
to anything outside the interests of Wall Street. He went to business
early in the morning before his family were down, and returned in the
evening just in time for dinner, so weary and exhausted that very often
he dined alone in his study to save the necessity of changing his
business suit for evening dress.

Ada was a beautiful girl who had been indulged in a way which would
seem almost impossible in the eyes of an English child. Before she was
twelve years old she had as many jewels in her jewel-case as a wealthy
English girl might hope to have at her wedding. She had a little pony
phaeton of her own, drawn by a pair of perfectly-trained ponies, and
guarded by a small nigger page in buttons. Ada Nicoli was the envy of
all the other children of her acquaintance. She had been brought up
by her doting mother to think of little else but her own pleasure and
beauty. She had two sisters, a good many years younger than herself,
who did not share the devotion of her mother. Marjory and Sadie were
entirely superfluous commodities in Mrs. Nicoli’s eyes. “She had no use
of them,” in her poor shallow life, for her lovely Ada was a sufficient
companion and amusement. Ada Nicoli, compared with other American girls
of her position, had received a very poor education. She had been well
trained, it is true, in all the social etiquette necessary for the
daughter of an American millionaire. In her mother’s eyes she was
destined to be the wife of some Englishman of scant income but ancient
pedigree, and her father had little time to interfere with his child’s
up-bringing. His wife had had but a meagre education herself, and yet
she managed to hold her own amongst the society hostesses of New York.
It was pure selfishness on the part of Mrs. Nicoli that her child was
thus deprived of the most valuable possession a woman can have, a
highly-cultivated mind, for Ada was a bright intelligent girl, but her
mother could not bear the sorrow of parting with her by sending her to
a boarding-school, and her lessons at the day-school where she attended
were so constantly interrupted by Mrs. Nicoli’s calling to take her
daughter out with her in her carriage that the exasperated mistress
soon learned that Ada’s education was a matter of little account in her
parent’s eyes, and treated her accordingly.

Poor pretty Ada little knew, in these luxurious days of fine
carriages and finer dresses, how bitterly she would one day regret
her willingness to leave her lessons and the strict discipline of the
schoolroom for the bright sunshine and pleasing admiration of the
fashionable world in Central Park. It was so pleasant to sit by her
pretty, delicate mother in the softly-cushioned carriage and drive
through the beautiful green park, where the wisteria arbours were
purple with long-tasselled flowers that scented the soft spring day.
How she pitied the other girls in the schoolroom, who spent their cents
as she spent dollars. What a dull life they had, and how badly their
mothers chose their dresses! She was glad her mother liked her always
to be dressed in white, it was so much prettier than anything else.

And so the pretty doll-child grew up into womanhood, conscious
only of the rich luxurious world in which she was sheltered by her
foolishly-indulgent mother. If you looked into Ada’s rose-tinted face
there was no expression there to indicate the girl’s true character.
Ada Nicoli’s soul lay dormant. At the age of eighteen she was merely
a pretty human machine that seldom went wrong, for she had excellent
health and a sweet temper.

On the afternoon when my story opens, Ada had been driving as usual
with her mother in Central Park. It was a brilliant early summer day,
and the whole world in Ada’s eyes was more than usually beautiful,
but for once her gentle and affectionate mother was in an irritable
humour. It seemed to Ada as if she were suffering from some suppressed
excitement, and as though some cruel blow had suddenly shattered her
nerves and blighted the beauty of her pretty soulless face. That drive
was the only unhappy hour Ada could ever remember having spent with her
mother. When they got home Mrs. Nicoli retired to her room, and then
a message was brought to Ada that her mother was too unwell to come
down to dinner. It was a silent, miserable dinner that night, for Mr.
Nicoli was in one of his most self-absorbed humours, and Ada knew her
father too well to try and break the silence with forced conversation.
She noticed too that his tired face was even paler than usual, and that
his dark, quickly-moving eyes were more restless than before. This was
the first little shadow of a cloud in Ada’s gay young life. She spent
that evening with the children in the schoolroom, longing for bedtime.
Before retiring to bed she knocked at her mother’s bedroom door. Her
father came out and motioned to her to be quiet. “Your mother has a
nervous headache,” he said, “and you must not ask to see her.” And with
an abrupt good-night he turned and left his daughter.

The next day Ada was astonished to see two trained nurses coming and
going from her mother’s room. She was not told what was the matter
with her mother, and there was a horrible air of mystery about the
house. Ada resented being treated like a child, and forbidden to enter
her mother’s room. And in the afternoon of that dreadful day she
waylaid a nurse coming out of the sick-room and demanded an answer to
her question—

“What is the matter with mumma?” she said, with such a look of misery
on her young face that the nurse could not put her aside. “If her
illness is not infectious, why may I not see her?”

“Your poor mumma has had some shock,” replied the nurse, “which has
upset her nerves.”

“What shock?” Ada asked. “She did not tell me, and mumma tells me
everything.”

“That’s what the doctor can’t find out, but there now, I must go back.
Nurse Hatch can’t manage her alone.”

“Can’t manage her alone,” Ada repeated. “Oh, do let me go to her. I
know I could soothe her. When mumma has a headache she likes me to be
with her.”

But the bedroom door was shut on Ada’s last words, and she heard the
lock turned from inside. She was listening to her mother’s excited
voice when her father came along the corridor. He stopped beside Ada,
and spoke abruptly to her.

“I want you to take the children for a drive in Central Park this
afternoon, and on your way tell the coachman to drive up and down
Fourth Avenue. Put on your own and the children’s smartest dresses, and
stop and speak to anyone you know. Say that your mother has got a bad
headache, and don’t go showing the world that miserable face.”

Ada looked at him in surprise.

“But I am miserable,” she said, “because mumma is ill; two trained
nurses are not necessary for a nervous headache. What is the matter
with my mother? What shock has she had? I have a right to know.”

It was her father’s turn to look at his daughter in surprise. Was
this his mild, gentle Ada, whose very beauty suggested a weakness of
character which her strong little chin contradicted.

“Who said she had had a shock?” he said nervously. “It is your duty to
do what I tell you, and not to ask questions.”

“I have always asked questions, poppa, and have always had them
answered. One of the nurses told me mother had had a shock.”

“Then I will tell her to hold her tongue. Now, do what I tell you; go
to any ‘at home’ you have been asked to; get some friend to chaperone
you, and laugh, and talk, and look your prettiest. You can do this for
your father’s sake, surely.”

He looked at her angrily. Ada had never done anything because she loved
her father. She had always feared and avoided him, and so the first
bitter lesson of life this poor indulged girl had to learn was one of
the cruellest of all and one which it takes an older and more expert
hand to play—to wear a smiling face to hide an aching heart.

Marjorie and Sadie were so delighted to go for a drive with their
pretty elegant sister in mumma’s big carriage that their tongues
rattled on unceasingly.

“When I’m a big lady like mumma,” little Sadie said, “I’ll have four
horses in my carriage, like that one over there, Ada,” and Sadie
pointed to a fine four-in-hand coach driven by a well-known leader of
New York fashionable world; “and I’ll buy lots of little babies of my
very own, that I can wash and dress three or four times a day, but I
won’t buy them a horrid cross poppa like our poppa, I’ll buy them a
nice kind one, that plays with them, like Sissie Brown’s poppa. Why
doesn’t mumma buy a new poppa, Ada?”

“Hush, dear,” Ada said; “you can’t buy poppas.”

“Then where do they come from?” Sadie asked, with a look of wonder in
her eyes.

“God gave you yours,” Ada answered absently, for her thoughts were with
her mother, who was lying sick in her big luxurious room, watched over
by two strange women. The fight Ada was making to appear cheerful was,
I am afraid, a very pitiful affair, and more than one pair of eyes were
turned curiously upon her.

“If God sends poppas I suppose we must just be contented with His
choice, but I wish He’d asked me what kind I liked,” Sadie said softly.
Meanwhile Ada was throwing a watery little smile on some friend who
was eagerly bowing to her, a partner at some dance a few nights ago.
Responding to a bow first on this side, and then on that, a good many
of the mothers in New York who knew Mrs. Nicoli thought she had brought
up her daughter in a very foolish way, but one and all of them agreed
that it was evident that the girl’s natural disposition was too simple
and good to spoil. She had such gentle, engaging manners, and such
sweet blue eyes, no one could help loving her.

The next day passed in a very similar manner. Mrs. Nicoli’s condition
did not mend. And Ada was still kept in ignorance as to the real
character of her complaint. On the afternoon of the third day, when
she returned from her drive with the children, she found her mother’s
room was empty. The patient and the nurses had both disappeared. When
her father came in from business, Ada ran to him and asked for an
explanation. Something had prevented her questioning the servants as to
where her mother had been taken.

“Your mother has gone to a private asylum,” her father answered, with
a break in his voice. “You need not tell the children. For the present
it was necessary to put her under supervision. Don’t ask me any more
questions,” he said impatiently, as Ada, trembling with fear, held on
to his coat-sleeve to detain him. “Women like your mother are no use
at all at a crisis,” he continued. “The one moment of her married life
when I wished for her help she has failed me. You are so like her you
would do the same, I suppose.” Mr. Nicoli saw the carnation colour fade
out of Ada’s lips and cheeks, but her blue eyes never shrank from his
piercing scrutiny of her face.

“I have some of your blood in me, too,” she said haughtily. “It may be
for my good, or for my evil, time will prove, but at least it has given
me a stronger constitution than my poor mother’s. Can you not trust me
a little?”

“There is nothing to confide,” he said, with the lie choking his throat
as he spoke. “Your mother has nervous prostration,” he said.

“You are in trouble yourself,” the girl said timidly. “Could I not take
my mother’s place and help you.”

“What makes you think I am in trouble?” he replied impatiently. “Yes,
you can easily fill your mother’s place by looking pretty and spending
money.” He took out his pocket-book and drew from it a thick bundle of
notes. “Take these and spend them on chiffons and candies, and don’t
talk nonsense.”

Ada pushed away the money. “Women care for something dollars can’t buy,
poppa. I’m tired of money and all it is worth.”

Her father laughed harshly. “I’m glad to hear it,” he said. “Fate may
humour your new craze sooner than you think.”

Ada pondered over his words. What did they mean?

(_To be continued._)




MRS. EWING AND HER BOOKS.


Very few persons will now be inclined to question that Mrs. Ewing is
the premier story-teller for children of this generation. No library
for young people can be considered complete without most of her books.
A few of her writings may appeal more fully to older readers; but the
majority afford immense delight when placed in the hands of boys and
girls. Happily all can now be obtained at low prices.

Though Mrs. Ewing wrote no book of great length, the number and variety
of her output are considerable. Her stories range from fairy tales with
a purpose to books of adventure and domestic incident of all kinds.
We get such sketches as _The Brownies_, where two little lads act on
the happy suggestion to serve as elfish helpers of their widowed and
burdened father, and set to work to brighten the house, not without
soon learning that “there is no such cure for untidiness as clearing up
after other people; one sees so clearly where the fault lies.” We have
such tales as _Timothy’s Shoes_, with the magic shoes which make every
step like a galvanic shock when the feet are turned into wrong paths.
We have books specifically for older boys and girls: _We and the World_
is full of thrilling adventure; _Six to Sixteen_ embodies a good deal
of Mrs. Ewing’s views on education; it traces the quiet development
of a girl’s life and thought, and though perhaps the interest flags
a little in parts, it will always be popular on account of its
description of military life during a cholera epidemic and its charming
pictures of Yorkshire hospitality. A girl cannot fail to be the better
for reading it. Indeed, there is not one of Mrs. Ewing’s numerous books
that does not impart the consciousness of a tenderly sympathetic heart;
with her we feel that

    No simplest duty is forgot;
    Life hath no dim and lowly spot
    That doth not in her sunshine share.

Even when she describes spoiled children and domestic discord, as
in _A Very Ill-Tempered Family_, we get an attractive portrait of
Isobel, who becomes the peace-maker and is herself helped in her time
of struggle by passages from Thomas à Kempis and the petitions of the
“Te Deum,” and who is enabled to conciliate and save her hot-tempered
brother. This sketch and the companion one of _A Great Emergency_ are
full of quaint wit and wisdom, though with fewer verbal quips than the
earlier tales. Mrs. Ewing has the art of wrapping up her advice in a
fascinating story, and does not make her pills with eight corners. The
felicitously chosen titles, often reminding us of John Bunyan, by no
means disappoint the reader.

Many may think that _Lob Lie by the Fire_ is her completest work of
art; and certainly it is a skilfully constructed composition, with
a fragrance as of _Cranford_ in its earlier scenes. But it is in
the trilogy of her last years that her powers culminated. Between
1879 and 1882 Mrs. Ewing produced the three works most widely
popular—_Jackanapes_, _Daddy Darwin’s Dovecot_, and _The Story of a
Short Life_. These constitute an imperishable memorial to her genius,
and have sold in enormous numbers, reaching to one hundred and fifty
thousand in the case of _Jackanapes_. In these books every sentence
is carefully chosen; no superfluous word is to be found; we get pen
pictures of rarest excellence.

In _Jackanapes_ we have the high ideal of soldierly self-sacrifice,
and in _The Story of a Short Life_ the application of military habits
and endurance to a crippled and stunted life. In _Daddy Darwin’s
Dovecot_ we have a sweet idyll of village life. The lad, John March,
on emerging from the workhouse school, has the double ambition to be a
choir-boy and to take care of doves. We delight to trace his fidelity
and diligence; his master soon sees and says that “he’s no vagrant.”
“He’s fettling up all along. Jack’s the sort that if he finds a key
he’ll look for the lock; if ye give him a knife-blade, he’ll fashion a
heft.” And in the peaceful close of the story we listen to the master,
with his last strength, saying to his adopted son, “’Twas that sweet
voice o’ thine took me back again to public worship, and it’s not the
least of all I owe thee, Jack March. A poor reason, lad, for taking up
with a neglected duty—a poor reason—but the Lord is a God of mercy, or
there’d be small chance for most of us.” As the old man died “his lips
were trembling with the smile of acutest joy.”

In most of her books Mrs. Ewing traces the progress of children from
youth to manhood and gives us an insight into the development of their
character. Thus in _Lob Lie by the Fire_, for example, we have the
foundling christened John Broom; we see him adopted by Miss Betty
and Miss Kitty in spite of the warnings of the cautious lawyer, but
under the guidance of the good clergyman who, while feeling he may
be encouraging them in grave indiscretion, feels impelled to say, “I
do know that he has a Father Whose image is also to be found in His
children—not quite effaced in any of them—and Whose care of this one
will last when yours may seem to have been in vain.” We journey with
him in all his difficult training; we are with him in his chivalrous
devotion to McAlister, the Highlander, whose honour he saves and whose
last hour he comforts. We watch him, as the beneficent “brownie” in his
village home, as he brings luck to Lingborough, and works for others.
In this tale, as in so many others, we feel that sustained personal
interest which belongs to a biography.

But it is in connection with _The Story of a Short Life_ that interest
has recently been rekindled in Mrs. Ewing in many quarters, on account
of the remarkable development of the “Guild of the Brave Poor Things,”
which has sprung into existence as the direct outcome of this tale. As
Sir Walter Besant built the “People’s Palace” by the picture painted in
his novel, so Mrs. Ewing has done an equally important work, though not
herself permitted to live to see the results of her suggestions.

In the work of this guild gatherings of afflicted people—blind,
deaf, paralysed, or otherwise incapacitated for the full activity of
ordinary life and work—are held at regular intervals in London and
other centres. Classes suitable to their varied needs are conducted;
companies of the brave who suffer, often with infinite heroism, are
inspirited by being assembled for bright meetings, in which all
that the suggestion of the atmosphere and colour of military habit
can impart, is used to make prominent the fact that the members are
as truly soldiers as the veterans of the “tented field,” that the
“courage to bear and the courage to dare are really one and the same.”
Thus the schoolrooms are decked with banners, while the roll-call of
members and the singing of the tug-of-war hymn (Bishop Heber’s “The
Son of God goes forth to war”) are looked forward to eagerly by the
sufferers, young and old, who are banded together in this comradeship
of affliction. It is almost startling to find walls emblazoned with the
motto “_Lætus sorte meâ_,” and to learn that many people, innocent of
any language but their mother-tongue, have become intelligently proud
of the words which bid them be happy in their lot.[1]

The whole of this movement, now spreading rapidly, has come from Mrs.
Ewing’s sweetly pathetic story, which appeared under its familiar
title of _A Story of a Short Life_ only four days before the death of
its author in 1885. Some three years previously it had been issued
in magazine form under the forbidding Latin title of its motto.
An Irishman, who was a Dorsetshire parson, came with a present of
magnificent climbing roses to Mrs. Ewing a short time afterwards. When
he was thanked for his gift, he said rather grumpily, “You’ve given
me pleasure enough—and to lots of others.” Then he suddenly _chirped_
up and said, “_Lætus_ cost me 2s. 6d. though. My wife bet me 2s. 6d.
I couldn’t read it aloud without crying. I thought I could. But after
a page or two I put my hand in my pocket. I said, ‘There—take your
half-crown, and let me cry comfortably when I want to!’”[2]

We understand that this tale is based largely on life; certainly it
enshrines much of the surroundings of Aldershot, where Major and
Mrs. Ewing lived for eight years. In it we have the life-history of
the lad Leonard, and trace how this high-spirited and spoiled child
conquers his peevishness and triumphs over the limitations of his lot
as a cripple. For a time after his accident his violent and irritable
temper carries all before it; his very crutches become “implements
of impatience”; but he is subdued, and eventually transfigured by
intercourse with a gallant officer wearing the Victoria Cross, who
teaches him that he, too, may be a happy warrior, and, though “doomed
to go in company with pain,” may “turn his necessity to glorious gain,”
and count himself as true a soldier as any wounded on the battle-field.
Leonard not only becomes brave and patient, but he forms a book or
register of “Poor Things,” that is, of people who, like the blind
organ-tuner, manage almost as well in spite of their troubles. In this
roll of honour he inscribes the names of those who

                            “argue not
    Against Heaven’s hand or will, nor bate one jot
    Or heart or hope, but still bear up and steer
    Right onward.”

Hence the name of the guild, which is itself a beautiful posthumous
memorial to the genius and sympathy of its creator. And here it is
pleasing to record an incident of Mrs. Ewing’s last illness. In one of
her paroxysms of pain she expressed a fear to the doctor that she had
been impatient. He answered, “Indeed you are not. I think you deserve
a Victoria Cross for the way in which you bear it.” This afforded her
intense satisfaction, as it was known that the doctor had not read _A
Story of a Short Life_ itself.

Mrs. Ewing died when she was only forty-four years old. Her
comparatively brief life was throughout heavily streaked with periods
of much pain, endured with amazing fortitude and cheerfulness. From
her earliest days she found her chief happiness in sacrificing for
others. In the exquisite little memoir which her sister (Mrs. Eden)
has published, we have a personal interpretation supplied to some of
her writings. We learn that in the sketch of Madam Liberality we have
reminiscences of her own doings: “Here she has painted a picture of
her own character that can never be surpassed.” With such a testimony
we turn to peruse its pages with redoubled interest. In the first
sentences of this sketch we find it recorded of Madam Liberality:

“It was not her real name: it was given to her by her brothers and
sister. People with very marked qualities of character do sometimes get
such distinctive titles to rectify the indefiniteness of those they
inherit and those they receive in baptism. The ruling peculiarity of a
character is apt to show itself early in life, and it showed itself in
Madam Liberality when she was a little child.”

And then we have the account of the pleasure the child derived from
saving the plums from her cake, and how “she could ‘do without’
anything if the wherewithal to be hospitable was left to her.” Her
liberality was the outcome of continuous and rigid self-denial, and in
sharp contrast to that of her brother Tom.

“It may seem strange that Madam Liberality should even have been
accused of meanness, and yet her eldest brother did once shake his head
at her and say, ‘You’re the most meanest and generoustest person I ever
knew.’

“And Madam Liberality wept over the accusation, although her brother
was then too young to form either his words or his opinions correctly.
But it was the touch of truth in it which made Madam Liberality cry.
To the end of their lives Tom and she were alike and yet different in
this matter. Madam Liberality saved and pinched and planned and then
gave away, and Tom gave away without the pinching and the saving. This
sounds much handsomer, and it was poor Tom’s misfortune that he always
believed it to be so, though he gave away what did not belong to him,
and fell back for the supply of his own pretty numerous wants upon
other people, not forgetting Madam Liberality.”

Mrs. Eden tells us of the thoughtful kindness shown to herself and
other members of her family by her sister who, out of her literary
earnings, planned delightful holidays for them, often adding to the
pleasure by letting the patient choose her own route according to her
fancy.

In this same sketch we get an insight into the courage of Madam
Liberality, “like little body with a mighty heart.” Often tortured by
headache, toothache, and quinsy, “no sufferings abated her energy for
fresh exploits or quenched the hope that cold and damp and fatigue
could not hurt her ‘this time.’” Of Mrs. Ewing it is stated that “she
was always coughing” as a girl, but her weakness never seemed to
affect her vivacity. We read how Madam Liberality went alone to the
dentist’s and allowed him to extract a horribly difficult tooth without
flinching; she well merited the praise, “You’re the bravest little lady
I ever knew.” This incident finds its counterpart in Mrs. Ewing’s life
when she went alone to a London surgeon for an operation on her throat
in order that no friend might be present at so unpleasant a scene.

On the “ever-glorious first of June” in the year 1867 Juliana Gatty
was married to Alexander Ewing, A.P.D. After two years spent in New
Brunswick she returned to England with her husband, who for eight years
was stationed at Aldershot. Here she acquired her close familiarity
with military habits and the high appreciation of soldierly virtues
which have made her later books both pathetic and stimulating. Of
fragile frame herself, she has immortalised the famous south country
camp.

Not long after the final removal of Major Ewing from Aldershot the
health of his wife began steadily to fail. She was compelled to remain
in England when he had to serve in India, and she had to bear many
crushed hopes during the last six years of her life. But her “lamp of
zeal and high desire” continued to burn brightly.

In the early part of 1885 she was seized with an attack of
blood-poisoning. After a short period of physical and mental darkness
she said truly that she would be “more patient than before.” At her
request her sisters made a calendar for the week with the text above,
“In your patience possess ye your souls.” Each day the date was struck
through with a pencil. For another week she had the text, “Be strong
and of a good courage,” and later still, when nights of suffering were
added to days of pain, “The day is Thine; the night also is Thine.”
Her brave life was closed on May 13th, so far as her visible presence
in this life is concerned; but who can fail to appreciate the words
from the _Newcomes_, which are the last entry made in Mrs. Ewing’s
commonplace book, “If we still love those we lose, can we altogether
lose those we love?”

Whilst herself a devoted member of the Anglican Church, Mrs. Ewing
was well able to appreciate the point of view of others; thus we get
sympathetic pen portraits of devout Presbyterians, and her writings
are free from sectarian suggestions. In the realm of philanthropy we
owe much to both Mrs. Gatty and her daughter. Both bring us into close
touch with nature and inculcate a tenderer sympathy with all created
beings and objects. No one can read Mrs. Gatty’s _Parables from Nature_
without gaining some spiritual insight and a fuller conception of God’s
care and love.

    F. W. NEWLAND, M.A.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Full particulars of the Guild can be obtained from its founder,
Sister Grace (Mrs. Kimmins) at the Bermondsey Settlement, where its
headquarters are.

[2] _Life and Letters of Mrs. Ewing_, p. 283 (S.P.C.K.).




LETTERS FROM A LAWYER.


PART X.

    The Temple.

MY DEAR DOROTHY,—You say that Aunt Anne is in a great state of mind
because she has lost her copy of Uncle John’s will. She sent it to her
solicitors to have their opinion on one of the clauses in the will, and
they declare that the will was returned to her, and that it is not in
their possession.

There is no need for Aunt Anne to distress herself, even if her copy
of the will is lost; she can easily procure another copy by applying
to Somerset House. If she only wishes to read over the will again
with the opinion she has received from her lawyers, she had better
go down to Somerset House, which is in the Strand, not very far from
Wellington Street, on the right hand side going towards the City from
Charing Cross, and there they will let her read the will on payment of,
I think, a shilling, and they will supply her with a certified, or an
ordinary, copy of the will on payment of so much per folio, the exact
amount she can learn on inquiry.

The part of Somerset House where the wills are kept is exactly opposite
the archway, straight across the courtyard—she cannot mistake it.
Inside she will find several polite minor officials, who will show her
what forms to fill up, fetch the books for her and render her every
possible assistance; the men who fetch the books expect a small tip for
their trouble.

At Somerset House, Aunt Anne will find all sorts of people reading
not only the wills of their friends and relatives, but also wills
under which they can take no pecuniary interest, such as the wills of
public men in no way related to them; anyone can read anybody’s will on
payment of the usual fee. To make a copy of a will for oneself is not
permitted, but you may take a short note of its contents.

Somerset House, like most of the public offices, closes at four
o’clock, so it is advisable to go not after half-past three at the
latest. If Aunt Anne can put off her visit till next week, I shall be
happy to accompany her if she desires it. This week all my time is
fully occupied with an unusually large sessions, which means that your
affectionate cousin will have the chance of scooping in a guinea or two
by the prosecution of some unfortunate prisoner. This is what we call
getting “soup.”

A curious name, is it not? I do not know the origin of the term, which
is certainly a suggestive one. A good many of us never get beyond the
“soup,” I am afraid, much as we should like to assist at the carving up
of the joints.

After which poetical digression, let us return to our muttons. It is
very annoying to lose a business appointment on account of a train
being late. Gerald has my sympathy, but I can offer him no consolation,
it being a generally established rule that damages cannot be obtained
for the loss of a business engagement, nor can damages be obtained for
the annoyance experienced by the traveller.

You see the railway companies say that “every attention will be paid
to ensure punctuality,” and to recover damages you would have to prove
that the lateness of the train was due to their neglect to pay the
“every attention” promised, a difficult thing to do. Supposing the
weather was foggy, or there had been a break-down on the line, or some
other reason for the train being late, the company would declare that
their failure to keep to the time advertised on their time-tables was
unavoidable, and due to causes beyond their control.

There have been one or two cases where travellers have recovered
damages from railway companies on account of the lateness of a train,
but in all these cases there were special circumstances which rendered
the companies liable; but Gerald’s case was not an exceptional one; in
fact, if he were a suburban season ticket holder, he would find the
lateness of trains arriving in the morning a very common occurrence.

If a train is advertised to stop at a certain station, and you get
carried beyond your destination, you would probably be successful
in obtaining damages for personal inconvenience, supposing you were
obliged to walk back, and you would certainly be entitled to drive back
and charge the expense of carriage hire to the company; or, supposing
that no conveyance was procurable and it was too far or too wet or too
late for you to return on foot, you would be justified in going to a
hotel and making the company reimburse you for the expenses of the
night. It would have to be an exceptional case which would justify you
in the ordering of a special train, a course of action not recommended
by

    Your affectionate cousin,
        BOB BRIEFLESS.




GIRLS AS I HAVE KNOWN THEM.

BY ELSA D’ESTERRE-KEELING, Author of “Old Maids and Young.”


PART VIII.

THE BEAUTIFUL GIRL.

“Onely man,” says Sir Philip Sidney quaintly, meaning by “man” what we
term _a human creature_, for there is here no sex limitation, “onely
man, and no beast, hath that gift, to discerne beauty.”

When “that gift” is of generous proportions, as happens once in a
while, there is given the further ability to discern “something than
beauty dearer.” That phrase is a poet’s. Beauty has been from of old
a theme of poets, and the poets of this country, from Chaucer to
Browning, have made beautiful girls their theme. Chaucer has good and
bad to tell of them. The good may be read in many a tale, and the bad
will be best left unread. Browning has good and bad to tell of them.
There is good told of “beautiful Evelyn Hope—sixteen years old when she
died,” and there is bad told of “the beautiful girl, too white, who
lived at Pornic by the sea,” the girl who hoarded gold.

Browning, perhaps better than any English poet who ever lived, could
describe a beautiful girl’s face and incidentally point out a thing in
it detracting from its beauty. He does this with remarkable directness
in his poem called “A Face,” which opens—

    “If one could have that little head of hers
    Painted upon a background of pale gold,
    Such as the Tuscan’s early art prefers!
    No shade encroaching on the matchless mould
    Of those two lips, which should be opening soft
    In the pure profile; _not as when she laughs,
    For that spoils all_.”

[Illustration: SPOILT]

How did that girl laugh? Probably as too many an English girl
laughs—riotously. Of such an one was said a little while hence: “When
she laughs, there seems no room left in the world for any other sound.”

The loose use of the word “beautiful” in English is largely commented
on by foreign visitors to this country. The many English faces that
are lovely in colour must strike everyone, but that only a minority of
these are lovely in line is undeniable. Now a face to be beautiful must
be lovely in colour and in line.

“Health and mirth make beauty,” says a Spanish proverb wrongly. They
do not so, though they make what is by many deemed a better thing than
beauty, being that lovely and pleasant thing named comeliness.

The following is a question put by a girl—

“Can a girl with a bad nose be called beautiful?”

That is a question which one is tempted to meet with the
counter-question—

_What is a bad nose?_

A bad man—and even, alas! a bad woman—is a thing conceivable; but—a bad
nose—No.

The thing meant by this girl, it has transpired, is an unbeautiful
nose. Certainly a girl with such a nose, suppose it to take the form of
a tip-tilted nose, cannot be called beautiful. For her consolation, let
her be told that she can fairly be called pleasing, the actual fact, it
would seem, being that a tip-tilted nose sets a girl in one matter at
an advantage. A London journalist some little time ago gave his readers
this piece of information—

“One of those statisticians who find out what others cannot find out
asserts that girls with _retroussé_ noses marry sooner than young
ladies with Greek and Roman noses.”

[Illustration:

A NEW READING.
The retrousseau nose]

That is a remarkable assertion, not the least remarkable thing about
it being the phrasing of it—“_girls_ with _retroussé_ noses,” “_young
ladies_ with Greek and Roman noses.”

Welladay!

If it be conceded, as I think it must be, that classical outline is an
essential part of beauty, “young ladies” with Greek and Roman noses are
not without one feature essentially beautiful. In the case of those
with Greek noses, there are commonly other features satisfying the
severest exactions in regard to beauty. This fact notwithstanding, the
faces in question may be so far from pleasing to those who look, as the
poet did, for something than beauty dearer, as to bring upon themselves
the censure contained in certain words by Shakespeare—

    “This is a strange repose, to be asleep
    With eyes wide open; standing, speaking, moving,
    And yet so fast asleep.”

Beautiful faces too often lack animation.

As a natural consequence, beautiful faces lack another thing. A young
face to be pleasing must hold out a promise, just as an older face to
be pleasing must tell a story. Now there are more unbeautiful young
faces that hold out a promise than there are beautiful young faces that
do this, just as there are more unbeautiful older faces that tell a
story than there are beautiful older faces that do this.

In like manner, the regularity of line that is a main part of beauty is
often attended by defects in another direction, calculated to arouse
comment such as the following, being a speech made in reference to a
woman of great beauty—

“Her profile is delicious, but her full face is an empty face.”

The woman in question lacked somewhat in intellectuality. A beautiful
woman—so fairly on the whole are gifts distributed—is rarely a clever
woman, and a beautiful girl is often a goose. Thus it was a beautiful
girl of not ten but twenty years of age, who put to paper this account
of Spain—

“That is where the Inquisition was, and there are bull-fights there,
and the ladies wear black on their heads, and _Westward Ho!_ was there.”

It was a beautiful girl who asked lately—

“Has a cow horns?”

To which the counter-query put by an unbeautiful girl was—

“Did you ever hear of the nursery rhyme of ‘the cow with the crumpled
horn’?”

[Illustration]

It was a beautiful girl who wrote of a sailor as unfurling the
anchor, who spoke of the dress of a Chinese mandoline, who answered
the question put by a Frenchwoman, “What is the English for _raison
d’être_?” in the words, “_Raison d’être_ is English,” and who formed
one in a dialogue which took the following turn—

_He:_ “What are dead languages.”

_She:_ “The languages which were spoken by the dead Romans and Greeks.”

_He:_ “But how could the dead Romans and Greeks speak?”

_She:_ “Silly!”

_He:_ “‘Silly’ yourself!”

Not only do beauty and stupidity often go hand in hand, but beauty and
commonplace affections often do this. Butterflies love the flavour
of cabbage, and some beautiful girls—by their own confession—“love”
onions. It is no crime to like onions, but to “love” them is to waste
sweetness.

[Illustration: PARIS UP TO DATE]

That vanity, as a whole, is less often met with in beautiful girls than
in unbeautiful ones is a well-known fact, and it is a fact which I am
so little inclined to challenge that I give the following cases as
being to my full belief exceptions to the rule.

A beautiful girl, known to me, while really very young poses as being
very much younger. Her age is seventeen or thereabouts, and she poses
as being fourteen. If her age were forty or thereabouts, and she posed
as being seventeen, one would more easily forgive her. She will derive
the benefit of this mental bias some twenty years hence.

[Illustration: The fashion-plate girl]

In the case of another beautiful girl known to me, so much of her is
dress that her appearance seems to warrant what once seemed to me an
unwarrantable piece of English, being the following extract from a
society paper of the year 1887—

“Among the younger ladies was a pretty white tulle with marguerites and
a white satin bodice.”

At first reading of that I asked myself, “What sort of a young lady is
a pretty white tulle with marguerites and a white satin bodice?”

I do not ask myself that question now.

[Illustration: HEART VERY HARD AND IN THE WRONG PLACE]

Thirdly, a beautiful girl of my acquaintance has a face with what her
enemy calls “Inspection invited” all over it. That is unbeautiful
phrasing, but the charge thus levelled is not without foundation in
fact. One hopes that some day there may happen to this girl what there
happened once to a beautiful girl. She looked in the glass to see her
face, and she saw her heart, and that day all vanity left her.

As a picture of a beautiful girl I give in conclusion the following:—

_The Girl with the Face, described by one who knew her._

She used to pass my windows.

She had a face of quite perfect loveliness, the mouth and eyes very
merry, and flashing brown hair that hung open to her waist.

She was slightly deformed, her figure being thrown on one side, like
the leaf of a begonia. I never liked the leaf of a begonia until I
came to see her.

In all I may have seen her a hundred times, then she ceased passing my
windows, and after a while they brought me news that she was dead. By
special favour, they let me see her lying in her coffin, and this is
how she looked:—Her mouth, that had always been very merry, was quite
grave, and her hands were folded on her breast. They had put a rose in
one of them, and it laid its soft round cheek against her breast. Some
of them—this vexes me still as I write it—had tried to lay her hair
about her so as to hide that slight deformity that made her lie like a
begonia leaf.

This girl was in death, as she had been in life, the most beautiful
girl I ever saw.

(_To be concluded._)




SHEILA’S COUSIN EFFIE.

A STORY FOR GIRLS.

BY EVELYN EVERETT-GREEN, Author of “Greyfriars,” “Half-a-dozen
Sisters,” etc.


CHAPTER XXII.

IN SUSPENSE.

“Typhoid fever!”

The doctor had come and gone, and that had been his unhesitating
verdict.

“I may nurse him? You will not be so cruel to keep me away?” Sheila had
pleaded, her eyes full of tears.

The doctor had looked her all over, asked a few questions as to her
health and general condition, and had then made answer—

“If you will be sensible and take the proper precautions, you may help
in the nursing. Typhoid ought not to be passed from patient to nurse,
though it sometimes is. But a person in good health, acting under
direction, ought to escape. I will try and obtain a nurse for you, but
we have had to send for a good many already. Under her you may help,
and you also, Miss Ray, since you wish it so much. But remember that
you must be reasonable and obedient, or I shall send you both packing
in double quick time!”

And so when North came back from an anxious day in the town, during
which time he had found that nearly a dozen of their people had
sickened or were sickening with the insidious fever, he returned home
to find grave faces awaiting him, together with the news that Oscar had
come back with pronounced symptoms of the malady, and that Sheila was
with him upstairs, a nurse being expected from London in the course of
the evening.

North went straight up to his cousin’s room. Sheila sprang up, thinking
it was the doctor’s step. He took both her hands in his and gave her
a cousinly kiss of sympathy. It was the first time he had offered her
such a salute, and somehow it brought the tears to Sheila’s eyes. She
felt that it was a mark of sympathy she scarcely expected from the
undemonstrative North.

“What a good thing that you are here, Sheila!” he said.

“Oh, I am so thankful!” said the girl. “I should not have known how to
bear it out there!” and she suddenly felt a wonderful illumination of
spirit, as she realised the Fatherly guiding in all this trouble, as
she had thought it, which had ended by bringing her to her brother’s
side, just when he needed her most.

“I will try never to be angry and rebellious again!” she said in her
heart, and turned to the fire to dash the tears from her eyes.

North went over to the bed and took Oscar’s hot hand in his. The
listlessness of fever was upon the patient, but his eyes lighted at
sight of his cousin.

“How’s little Tom? Have you heard of him?”

“Yes, I’ve been to see him. He’s got all he wants—except your visit.
Hunt does not think his will be a bad case. But we have a good many
down with it in that alley. It is thought to be the state of the
drainage. You must have picked up the poison during some of your
peregrinations there, but away from it all you ought to get on like a
house on fire.”

North spoke cheerfully, nor was he unduly anxious about Oscar at this
juncture; but he knew enough of the fever to be aware that it ran a
tedious course, and that Oscar had a long bout of sickness before
him. He was half surprised himself how much he had missed the boy at
the office and about the works the past two days, and how little he
relished the thought that he must learn to do without him for some
weeks to come. They had got into the way of walking to and fro in
company, or working together in the evenings, and discussing together a
great many plans with regard to the business itself and the people in
the employ of the firm.

“He has got this fever poking about amongst the work-people,” North
mused to himself, “and it was my doing to a great extent that he took
up with that. I ought to have been more careful, for we have been told
often enough that the town is not healthy, and that a new drainage
scheme is badly wanted. I suppose now we shall have something done. I
only hope we are not in for a regular epidemic! Perhaps my father and
I ought to have agitated more, but it was not exactly our business,
and our hands always seem pretty full. Well, well, one must hope for
the best, but I wish Oscar had not been one of the victims. He never
seems to have much stamina. If it had been myself, I should soon have
battled through.”

North went down to the drawing-room, where there was a family
discussion going on.

“I don’t see that I am any good here,” Cyril was saying, “and you
will want all the room you can get, with Sheila back and this nurse
expected. So I’ll just go off straight to London, and take up my
quarters there. I can really read better if it comes to that, and I
shall be out of the way.”

The mother was about to give an assent to this scheme. Cyril was very
precious in her sight, and having one invalid already on her hands, she
was naturally anxious about the rest. But she saw that North’s face
looked hard and cold, and she glanced across towards her husband.

Mr. Tom’s eyes were fixed upon the glowing fire; he seemed to be
pondering deeply.

“Raby has gone to the Bensons, you say?”

“Yes, they sent for her immediately upon hearing the rumour of Oscar’s
illness. Her room will be useful for the nurse; but as Ray and Sheila
share Ray’s room, there is no need for Cyril to leave unless we think
it better. Perhaps we should be more comfortable with fewer at home.
There is always the chance of infection, whatever precautions we may
take.”

“Just so,” said Cyril, “and then I should only be another worry and
bother. The London plan would be much the best. I suppose you would
provide the funds, dad?”

Cyril spoke with the ease and assurance of a favoured son. He was the
only one who ever spoke to his father by that familiar title. Mr. Tom
did not take his eyes from the fire.

“You have your own allowance, and we have only reached half quarter
yet. You must have plenty in hand.”

Cyril coloured and then tried to laugh easily.

“What keeps one at home scarcely goes as far in London.”

“That allowance was fixed when you went to Oxford and has never been
changed. Many a man has less on which to bring up a family. It should
stand the strain of a few weeks in town.”

Cyril was silent, biting his lips. He was not accustomed to be denied
anything.

“Well, I need not go, I suppose,” he said rather sullenly. “I can stay
here and take my chance, of course.”

“Yes, and help in the press of work which this outbreak will entail
upon us all,” said his father rather sternly. “That is a thing which
had never occurred to you, I suppose.”

They were all rather surprised by the tone taken by the father towards
Cyril, nobody more so than the young man himself. A thrill of dismay
began to run through him. Something must have happened to change his
father’s manner so completely.

“Of course if I can be of any use——” he began nervously.

“Well, that remains to be proved. You have not been much use in the
world so far; but I think it is time your days of idling came to an
end. Perhaps this emergency will give you your chance. Let us see
during these next weeks the stuff of which you are made. Perhaps you
will be able to make up for the purposelessness and shortcomings of the
past year.”

His father looked straight at him then, and Cyril cowered as under a
blow. Then Mr. Tom rose and walked out of the room, followed by North,
whilst Cyril turned anxiously to his mother and exclaimed—

“What can he mean by that?”

But the mother did not know. Her husband had said nothing to her that
could explain his rather mysterious words. Had Cyril heard what passed
between father and son in the study he would have some reason to
tremble in earnest.

“Have you discovered anything fresh, sir?” asked North, as they stood
by the hearth.

“Yes; the report of the detective came in during your absence this
morning. Every note has at last been traced, and each one to Cyril.
He passed one through young Lawrence, as you found out some time ago;
another was cashed in London some time later; the third was a long
while in being traced, but it was paid at last by a small cigar dealer
in Romford. And it was elicited upon close inquiry that it had been
presented by a man exactly answering to the description of Cyril, who
had made a rather considerable purchase there, and had given the note
in payment. Some of the boxes with this man’s stamp on them have been
found in our rubbish bin. The case is complete in my estimation.”

“And what are you going to do?”

“Give him a chance to rouse himself from his selfish apathy during
these next weeks, and to win for himself something of a good name. Of
course, when Oscar recovers, the whole truth must be told. Meantime it
will rest between you and me; and we will see if there is not still
something behind that lazy, self-seeking exterior. I fear we have
spoiled Cyril, and that this is the outcome. But some men will rise
to an emergency, who otherwise drift along with the current all too
easily.”

It was the father’s hope that the crisis they feared in the town
would stir up Cyril to exertions and self-sacrifice, which would do
something to obliterate the bitter remembrances of the past. Perhaps
Mr. Tom forgot to bear in mind that whilst repentance for past sins
may be a stepping-stone to better things, a concealed and unrepented
act of wickedness is like a millstone about the neck, dragging the
soul downwards, and raising a barrier between it and those promptings
of the Spirit whereby alone men can rise to true nobility and
self-forgetfulness.

And now a time of stress and keen anxiety arose within the little town
of Isingford. The epidemic was restricted to a certain area, and was
easily traced to the defective drainage of that part of the town; but
its victims were very many within that area; and there were several
isolated cases, like Oscar’s, which, however, were generally traced to
poison germs inhaled in the infested locality.

Oscar did not appear at first to be very ill, and Sheila was quite
certain that he was going to have it mildly, and would soon be better.
The nurse was capable and kindly, and Oscar liked her. He always said
he was comfortable, only too lazy to talk; and it was difficult to get
him to take the food and medicine prescribed. He seemed to turn against
everything except iced water, and yet they must keep the furnace going
somehow.

In the town doctors and nurses were hard at work, together with a band
of amateur workers, hastily organised, who went round to the infected
houses daily, bringing those things which the doctors had ordered for
the poorer patients, and in cases where nurses were not to be had,
performing little offices for the sick, which they could not otherwise
have obtained.

North and Ray were amongst the most devoted of these workers, learning
much from the case at home how to treat others. But from Cyril there
was little efficient help to be got. He had professed willingness to
join in the work of personal ministration, but he shirked any actual
contact with the sick. He would fetch supplies, and make a show of
devotion, but there was no real heart for the task in hand. He loathed
the close, crowded alleys and the sick-rooms. He could not make up his
mind to enter them. He saw his brother and sister going about. He saw
the clergymen, whose tasks he had so glibly spoken once of undertaking,
toiling daily amongst the sick, taking the message of salvation to
those who longed to hear it, and seeking to point the way above to
such as had never been willing before to listen. He saw all this, but
he could not do as those did. He would make his way with a sort of
shuddering horror to some pleasanter place, away from the sights and
sounds which disgusted him, and try to forget his father’s words, or
his own vague misgivings as to coming trouble.

Nor was Isingford alone troubled by this outbreak. The outlying
families amongst the gentry came forward with money and help of other
kinds. May Lawrence drove in almost daily with supplies of good things
from dairy and larder; and gladly would she have been one of the band
of workers, but her mother could not bring her mind to sanction it.
Nevertheless the girl was to be constantly seen driving through the
poor streets, and leaving her doles, with bright and cheering words, at
the doors of the poor houses; and North and Ray, who saw her so often,
declared that she was like a sunbeam in those dismal places.

She always stopped to ask for Oscar, and at first got encouraging
replies. Later, however, a different tone crept into the answering
voices, and the reply would be gravely spoken.

“He does not get on. The fever keeps so persistent, and we can see no
change for the better. It is always slow in typhoid, but Oscar’s case
is not running in the usual lines. It puzzles the doctors and makes us
all uneasy.”

May was sincerely grieved. She liked Oscar; she was truly fond of
Sheila; and she had come to identify herself, in a fashion, with the
household in River Street. She heard of their work, and saw it with her
own eyes. The admiration she had always felt for North was increasing
daily.

But Oscar?

Sheila scarcely left him now except when the nurse drove her away to
take the needful rest, whether she could sleep or not. It seemed to her
as though her whole life had been passed in watching that dear, wasted
face. Everything else was so shadowy and indistinct; it seemed like
scenes from another life.

Her past life used sometimes again to flash vividly before her, and
at such times she would feel a strange sense of its emptiness and
worthlessness. Suppose it were she who had been called upon to lie
there, with death so very near! What sort of a record would she have
to give of the talents and advantages entrusted to her. Great waves of
humiliation and self-distrust would sweep over her, and she began to
understand that there was only one thing worth having in all the world,
and that was the life of the Lord within our own—the power to dwell in
Him, as He has ever promised to dwell by the Spirit in us.

And when that sudden illumination had come into Sheila’s heart, all
else was forgotten—merged in the sudden blinding light. All bitterness,
anger, selfishness, seemed to shrivel up to nothing, and she was even
able to throw herself on her knees beside the bed on which Oscar lay,
and to say from the bottom of her heart—

“Thy will be done.”

(_To be continued._)

[Illustration]




MY MOTHER.


    Eyes, in whose welling depths would I
      With wonder ofttimes gaze,
    And gazing smile, I scarce knew why,
      In those long-vanished days;
    Hand, that of old my pillow smoothed
      When fever burnt my brow,
    And all my infant sorrows soothed
      With love—where are ye now?

    Hushed is the voice whose accents soft
      Would cradle me to sleep;
    The eyes that lighted up so oft
      No longer laugh—nor weep;
    The hand, before whose touch so deft
      Sickness and care would flee,
    Is gone, and naught, alas! is left
      Save memory to me.

            G. K. M.

[Illustration: “ALL MY INFANT SORROWS SOOTHED.”]




FROM LONDON TO DAMASCUS.


PART V.

THE END OF OUR PILGRIMAGE.

On the 4th of April we left Jerusalem for Hebron, travelling in an
ancient vehicle driven by a merry bright-eyed youth, who at intervals
would put his head under the hood of the carriage, and inquire, “Are
you happy, O ladies?” On this journey we dispensed with the services
of our dragoman, Miss B. kindly undertaking for us the distracting
business of payments and bargaining, for the coinage of Palestine is as
perplexing as its language.

You can never be sure of the value of Turkish money in this country.
Every village, though circulating the same coins, puts a different
value on them; this is most embarrassing to the European. I do not
remember meeting either a native or an English resident, who could give
you off-hand the accurate cost of a few trifling purchases. Before
you can get near it, mysterious calculations have to be worked out
on paper; these must be illustrated by pieces of English, French and
Turkish money, accompanied by such profuse explanations that you soon
begin to doubt your own sanity. Lucky indeed is the English traveller
who survives, and goes forth with a serene countenance, believing that
he comprehends the system of accounts as practised in Palestine.

On the road we passed long caravans of Russian and other pilgrims going
up to Jerusalem to keep Easter. They saluted us courteously, but showed
unmistakable surprise at our travelling in an opposite direction to the
Holy City.

Half-way to Hebron we stopped at a khân, and were presented with tiny
cups of coffee. We returned the compliment by offering a backsheesh to
the khân-keeper.

In the remoter parts of Palestine buying and selling is reduced to
a fine art. As a matter of fact you don’t buy anything, you merely
exchange presents. You wish to purchase something and ask the price;
the owner immediately gives you the article, and with a grand air
places his hand on his heart and exclaims—

“Take it, my brother; what is that between thee and me?”

If you are foolish enough to accept his words literally, he will be
grievously disappointed, and by the exercise of much cunning would,
without fail, get his gift back again. No, the correct way is to
utter polite protests against such generosity, to which your would-be
benefactor again fervently remarks—

“Think not of that, O my brother, it is a trifle.”

You go on playing at cup and ball until he deprecatingly yields to
your scruples, and names a price out of all proportion to the value
of the article. At this point the game becomes exciting. If you are
wise, you turn on your heel in disgust, after throwing out contemptuous
hints on the worthlessness of the “present.” This causes the merchant
to reflect; his respect for you is growing; finally he relents and
proposes a more reasonable price. The exchange is then made, and you
part with mutual expressions of good-will.

While we were sipping our coffee, our driver and a friend washed their
hands, carefully removed their shoes from their feet, and turning
towards Mecca they solemnly prayed and recited portions of the Korân,
bowing their heads and performing the prescribed genuflexions. When
this duty was finished, they promptly fell out over some trifle, and
said things to each other in what Miss B. described as highly pictorial
language. Just as we expected them to come to blows, they embraced,
climbed into their places on the box-seat (for the friend turned out to
be a fourth passenger), and we resumed our journey, though not before
our Jehu had thrust his head under the hood of the carriage with the
artless inquiry, “Are you happy, O beautiful ladies?” To which Miss B.
replied—

“Transcendently happy, O son of the Prophet!”

In acknowledgment of this compliment to his powers of pleasing, we were
entertained with an improvised air, to which he sang in praise of our
loveliness and amiability of character. Such is the Arab!

In a couple of hours we were entering Hebron by the narrow valley whose
vine-clad hills have immortalised the Vale of Eshchol. We alighted at
the door of the English Hospital, which is outside the town, and were
warmly welcomed by the ladies, whose guests we were to be for the next
two days.

Under the guidance of Dr. Patterson, the medical missionary, we visited
the famous Mosque, but were only allowed to ascend the five outer
steps. This even excited the anger of the wild boys and girls, who
spat at us and cursed us as Pagan Franks. From one of the prayer holes
in the marvellous outer wall which surrounds the cave of Machpelah we
took out a paper, which had been placed there that morning by a Jewish
mother. On it was written in a curious Judeo-Arabic dialect a prayer
“to our Father Abraham that he would look upon her affliction and
intercede with the Lord of Hosts that He would give her sons instead of
daughters.” This desire for male children is common throughout Syria.
As soon as the first son is born, the father drops his own name and
is henceforward known as Abou Yusef—the father of Joseph—as the case
may be, while the mother gains the respect and love of her husband in
proportion to the number of sons she bears him. Daughters, as a rule,
are of no account.

We looked with reverence and awe upon the ancestral burial-place of the
Patriarchs. True, we could only gaze at the polished outer wall, but we
knew that therein “was the one spot of earth which Abraham could call
his own.” The pledge which he left of the perpetuity of his interest in
“the land wherein he was a stranger” was the sepulchre which he bought
with four hundred shekels of silver from Ephron the Hittite. Round this
venerable cave the reverence of successive ages and religions has now
raised a series of edifices which, whilst they preserve its identity,
conceal it entirely from view. But there it still remains. Within the
Mussulman mosque, within the Christian church, within the massive
stone enclosure built by the kings of Judah, is, beyond any reasonable
question, the last resting-place of Abraham and Sarah, of Isaac and
Rebecca, “and there Jacob buried Leah,” and thither, with all the pomp
of funeral state, his own embalmed body was brought from the palaces of
Egypt.[3]

Hebron is a Moslem city containing about 18,000 inhabitants. About
600 Jews dwell in the lower end of the town. Fierce and wild, it is
their boast that no Pagan Frank has built his house within their walls
nor desecrated their holy shrine with his presence. Whether this
bigotry will give place to tolerance under the softening influences
exercised by the medical missionaries has yet to be proved. We were
told that the people were becoming gradually gentler. To us they seemed
fanatical and dangerous. There is no hotel in Hebron for travellers.

Thanks to our good friends the missionaries we were able to visit most
of the places of interest round about. The neighbourhood abounds in
traditions. To the north, a cave is pointed out as having been the
abode of Adam and Eve for more than a hundred years. Farther south is
the spot where Cain killed Abel, and there in the “Vale of Tears” Adam
mourned for his murdered son, and close by the Father of all living was
buried.

The history of Hebron, or El-Kalleel (the Friend of God), is
particularly interesting. It is one of the oldest cities in the
world, having been built seven years before Zoan or Memphis in Egypt
(Num. xiii. 22). “Abram removed his tent, and came and dwelt in the
plain of Mamre, which is in Hebron, and built there an altar to the
Lord” (Gen. xiii. 18). Later on Joshua smote it with the edge of the
sword and destroyed it utterly; afterwards he gave it to Caleb for an
inheritance, “because that he wholly followed the Lord God of Israel.”
David reigned here seven years and a half. The murderers of Ishbosheth
were hanged by the pool, which is still in existence. Rebellious
Absalom made the city his headquarters. Centuries later it was taken
from the Edomites by Judas Maccabees, but since 1187 it has been in the
hands of the Moslems. To-day it is a picturesque stone town, the centre
of commerce for the southern Arabs, who bring their wool and camels’
hair to the market. They also trade extensively in glass beads and
leathern water-buckets.

We were sorry when our two days had expired, but alas! we had to say
good-bye to our hospitable English friends, for time pressed; so
waving a last farewell to the groups of deaconesses and servants, who
had gathered at the door of the mission house, we turned our faces
again towards Jerusalem. A couple of days in David’s city followed and
then to Jericho, where we bathed in the mysterious Dead Sea, and in
consequence were covered with salt crystals. Starting before sunrise,
we were back again in Jerusalem at 9 A.M., and late in the same
afternoon our little cavalcade, comprising Ameen, Bon Jour, Elizabeth
and myself, rode out of the city on our way north.

For the next six days we lived almost entirely in the saddle from
sunrise to sunset, sleeping at native hotels or convents, which had
been previously arranged for by our faithful dragoman, whose careful
attention to our needs cannot be too highly spoken of. Although the
sun was hot, the roads rough, and even a shady nook could not always
be found for our midday meal, we thoroughly enjoyed these long days
in the drowsy air. Every hill and valley, plain and pool we passed on
our route had been the scene of some more or less remarkable event
recorded in the Scriptures, and as Ameen was well posted up in Bible
history, and eager to impart his knowledge, we missed no place of
interest. Travelling thus day by day, seldom meeting any human being,
except an occasional shepherd or country woman, we had ample time
for reflection, and it was easy enough to give the reins to one’s
imagination, and ride with Joshua’s army through these silent vales, or
watch the impetuous rush of the warriors up those bleak rocky hills, as
with all the confidence of victory they stormed the cities which once
stood there. Again from out of the past we could hear the blessings
and curses thundered forth, and see the huge mass of people gathered
together, as we galloped through the narrow valley with the towering
sentinels, Gerizim and Ebal on either side. Or as we sat on Jacob’s
well we could listen to the sweet voice of the Saviour talking to the
poor woman of Samaria.

On we went through Nablous until we reached Mount Tabor, where on
the top, in the Latin convent, we rested a couple of days. Thence to
Tiberias, where we dismissed our faithful escort. Here we stayed with
our friends Dr. and Mrs. Torrance, of the Free Church of Scotland
Mission. Their house and hospital are built on the shores of the Lake
of Galilee, and amid its charming scenery we passed a fortnight. One
of our excursions took us to Gadara. Our tents were pitched on a green
knoll in the midst of wild beetling crags, volcanic mountains, and
tropical vegetation. We bathed by moonlight in one of the great natural
sulphur springs hidden by immense hedges of oleanders. Striking our
tents at five in the morning, we rode hard till twelve o’clock, when
we reached one of the ancient giant cities. Here Dr. Torrance held
an open-air medical mission. The poor people soon crowded round the
_Hakeem_ and were patiently examined, and medicines dispensed to those
who needed them. It was a picturesque and pathetic scene, the kindly
face of the white doctor, with the almost black natives, and hideously
tatooed women and girls waiting anxiously for his verdict, firmly
believing that his touch and medicines had miraculous power. As we rode
through the city we were deeply impressed by its mighty ruins, which
testified to the strength and culture of its founders. From Tiberias we
went to Nazareth, staying a few days at the Protestant Orphanage; and
then engaging two muleteers we set forth again, crossed Carmel, stayed
the night in the comfortable German hotel built at its foot, then
along the coast to Beyrout, stopping at Acre, Tyre, and Sidon—a five
days’ journey. This route I should not recommend to those who dislike
solitude and Eastern travel without the slightest Western comfort. Dr.
and Mrs. Eddy, of the American Presbyterian Mission, received us very
kindly at Sidon, as there turned out to be no hotel, though this town
was by far the most flourishing we had seen. A large industrial school
for boys, worked by the missionaries, was well attended, all kinds of
trades were taught, the pupils eagerly and intelligently learning, and
eventually going out well equipped to fight the battle of life.

We rested a few days at Beyrout (the Paris of Syria) under the shadow
of the purple Lebanons. Here we dismissed our muleteers, for we were
now in the region of railways and civilisation. Very early on a Monday
morning we got into the train which was to take us to Damascus. The
journey lasted ten hours, but it seemed like two, for the railroad is
cut through the Lebanons, and the most exquisite scenery meets the
eye the whole way. Towards four o’clock the train rushed screaming
through the valley of the Barada (the Abana of Scripture), past smiling
gardens, and drew up in the station of Damascus. It was a glowing
afternoon, but the lovely green of the trees and the plash, plash,
of the rapid rivers softened the glare of the domes and roofs of the
houses, and gave relief from the dusty roads. In the evening we went
up to the top of a hill overlooking “the mother of cities,” and sat
down to enjoy the scene. How dreamlike it looked in the soft sunset!
The brown bare mountains on one side, the pathless desert all round.
Damascus, like an exquisite pearl set in a crown of emeralds, nestled
surrounded by miles of waving green trees. No wonder that to the
sun-baked Bedouin of the desert it is a paradise, or that Mahomet in
first beholding it, turned back, saying, “I am not fit to enter.”

The bazaars of Damascus are famous in the East. Each set of merchants
has its own quarters, so that there is no difficulty in finding the
wares you require. There are long straight arcades, and winding,
twisting arcades, all aglow with light and colour.

But there is no time to linger or describe the beauties of this truly
beautiful city. We spent a week amid its wonders and fell more in love
with it day by day. I might mention that the hotels are fairly good,
and English travellers are well cared for.

And now our journeyings are nearly over. A week at Baalbec, where the
famous ruins of the temples of Jupiter and the Sun are the astonishment
of all beholders; thence to Beyrout, from which port we embarked for
Constantinople, another delightful five days’ journey, and we steamed
into the Bosphorus.

A week crammed with more wonders in the way of sight-seeing, and then
late on Monday afternoon we stepped into the Oriental Express and were
whirled homewards, and on Thursday afternoon we were in dear smoky
London once more, after an absence of nearly four months.

It may interest my readers to know that our joint expenses for this
trip were £170, including £39 for railway tickets from Constantinople
to London. This sum took in every item of expenditure except the
presents which we bought for our home friends. Of course we could
not possibly have seen so much, nor travelled so comfortably and
economically if it had not been for the kindness and hospitality of our
many missionary friends, who had looked forward to our visit, and who
made everything easy and delightful for us. If any of the girl readers
of THE GIRL’S OWN PAPER set out on such a tour, I hope they will return
with as many pleasant recollections as we did. And now farewell.

    S. E. BELL.

FOOTNOTES:

[3] Stanley, _Lectures on the Jewish Church_.




VARIETIES.


LASTING A LIFETIME.

_Mrs. Crabshaw:_ “What do you mean by cheating me like this? You said
this chain I bought here would last a lifetime, and here is all the
plating worn off in a month.”

_Goldskin:_ “Madam, I said dot shain vould last you a lifetime pecause
when you puy it you look so sick I didn’t t’ink you vould live der veek
oudt.”


LIFE IS SHORT.

    As shadows cast by cloud and sun
      Flit o’er the summer grass,
    So in Thy sight, Almighty One,
      Earth’s generations pass;
    And as the years, an endless host,
      Come swiftly pressing on,
    The brightest names that earth can boast
      Just glisten and are gone.—_Bryant._


ABSURD NAMES.

Amongst absurd names which have been recorded at Somerset House within
recent years, we have the following, of which few people would like to
be the bearers:—

“That’s it, who’d have thought it?” “Is it Maria?” “Bovril,” “Sardine,”
“Ananias,” “Judas Iscariot,” and “Man Friday.”




THE HOUSE WITH THE VERANDAH.

BY ISABELLA FYVIE MAYO, Author of “Other People’s Stairs,” “Her Object
in Life,” etc.


CHAPTER XXIII.

A STRANGE DISAPPEARANCE.

Tom hurried wildly through his boyish toilet and rushed into the
dining-room, expecting to find the breakfast party round the table.

He pulled himself up with an astonished whistle, for the room stood
empty, the table unspread, the fire unlit, while everything wore that
indescribable air of desertion and neglect which rooms seem to bear
each morning till human life has again passed through them with the new
day.

“Something must have gone wrong with my ticker,” was Tom’s natural
conclusion. But no, the watch was honestly at work, having now advanced
to a quarter to nine. Besides, the daylight of the February morning
assured him that it could not be much earlier.

“Clementina has ‘slept in’ herself,” he decided, “and everything will
go wrong together.”

By way of making a move in the right direction, he went into the hall
and performed vigorously on a little gong which stood there. Clementina
usually did this twice—a wakening peal and a breakfast peal, with an
interval of half an hour. To warn everybody that things were not going
on us usual, Tom promptly repeated his performance.

It did not bring Clementina upon the scene, dishevelled and in deep
self-humiliation. The first appearance was Miss Latimer, who came
downstairs, her usual prim self, saying—

“What is the matter? I have been up for a while, but I had forgotten to
wind my watch, and the house was so quiet that I thought I had mistaken
the time, and in hope Mrs. Challoner is resting I did not wish to rouse
her.”

“I don’t think Clementina can be up herself,” said Tom.

Miss Latimer glanced round the dining-room.

“Perhaps she is ill,” she said. “She looked rather pale last night. She
seems a very sympathetic person.”

Miss Latimer called down the kitchen stair, but there was no answer
save that the cat came forward, mewing in the appealing fashion common
to cats when they feel themselves unfairly deprived of human society.

“Clementina must be still in her room,” said the old lady, and she
bustled up to the topmost storey, Tom following at her heels.

One or two vigorous knocks produced no effect, so they tried the door.
It was locked, and the key was evidently not in the lock on either side.

Miss Latimer and Tom looked at each other aghast.

“We must go downstairs at once and set the house going,” decided the
old lady, “and we must not make any noise nor fuss till we have seen
Mrs. Challoner.”

As they passed downstairs, Lucy came out of her room, with the white,
deeply graven face which tells of restless vigil. After a sleepless
night she had slept heavily towards morning, and had only awakened with
the sound of Tom’s gong.

“We are all rather behind-hand,” Miss Latimer said, “and something is
the matter with Clementina.” That was the utmost she would say until
she and Tom had lit the fires.

They found time to exchange a few whispered cogitations as they bustled
about in the kitchen, into which they would not allow Lucy to intrude.

“I don’t believe Clementina is in her room,” said Miss Latimer, “and I
hope not, for it means something bad if she is.”

“I do believe she has got frightened over our talk last night and has
run away!” Tom remarked. “Who would have thought she would make tracks
like this?”

“Where can she be?” asked Miss Latimer. “I remember Lucy saying she was
so sorry for her because she knew nobody here, and didn’t seem inclined
to make friends.”

“I hope she hasn’t committed suicide,” said Tom.

“Why should she commit suicide?” asked Miss Latimer quite sharply. It
was her own fear.

“People do sometimes, though nobody knows why,” Tom said. And he went
and took a nervous peep into the cellar and scullery, which revealed
nothing worse than the general air of desertion which hung over all the
premises.

Of course, such a development could not be long concealed from the
mistress of the house. As soon as Lucy had drunk a cup of tea and
a faint shade of colour had come into her face, they told her that
Clementina was nowhere to be found. Lucy was not flurried nor worried
as she would have been a few weeks before. At present her soul had
withdrawn into that sacred pavilion of sorrow where the petty clash of
common troubles scarcely sounds. If things had gone wrong with Charlie,
why wonder that everything else went wrong? Rather it seemed natural
and just what might be expected!

It was useless to call in outside aid till they had thoroughly explored
the house. They went carefully through every room and closet, leaving
Clementina’s locked chamber till last, as it had to be broken into,
though its door offered very little resistance to Tom’s strong young
arm.

Miss Latimer was right. The room was empty! The bed had not been slept
in. Clementina’s box stood in its accustomed place. It was locked, but
the key was left in the lock.

Lucy opened a little hanging cupboard.

“She has gone away in all her best clothes,” she said. But why had she
gone? And where?

“Is anything missing?” asked Miss Latimer.

Of course that could not be ascertained in a moment. Lucy felt little
misgiving on this matter.

“Whatever this means,” she said, “we know that Clementina comes of
respectable folk—Mrs. Bray’s Rachel answers for that.”

It was now impossible for Lucy to go to her class. It was equally
necessary that Tom should present himself at the office, though
he hoped that, when “the governors” heard about the sad news of
yesterday and the trial of to-day, they might speedily release him. He
undertook to conduct little Hugh to the Kindergarten, and to convey
Mrs. Challoner’s excuses to the Institute, which last commission he
accomplished with such simple directness that Lucy presently received
a kindly hand-delivered note from the Principal, bidding her not to
return to her duties till she felt fully equal to them—they would
secure a satisfactory proxy.

The two ladies’ investigations had bewildering results—quite of a piece
with the bedroom key being taken away, and the keys left in the trunk.
The tiny store of household silver was safe, and Lucy, running her eye
over other household gods, missed nothing. The domestic arrangements
had apparently been in good order until very near the end. But such
movements as Clementina must have made during the previous day were
most unaccountable. She had put butter among the loaf sugar, and had
placed the saucepans on the dresser shelves! There was not a single
potato in the house, though the day before she had asked for money
to buy a week’s supply. The nice clean damask tablecloth and napkins
which had been used at supper the night before were found crumpled
up and thrust away with the blacking brushes. The bellows was in the
bread-basket!

“One would think she had gone out of her mind!” ejaculated Miss
Latimer. And then a thought flashed upon her. She paused. She would not
at once give it utterance.

Tom got back, breathless, by noon. The principals of the firm were
shocked to hear of the uncertainty of their young partner’s fate, and
deeply sympathetic with the poor wife, who might so well be “widow.”
They bade Tom give her all the help he could, and come to them for any
service they might be able to render. On his way back Tom had looked in
at Mr. Somerset’s lodgings to bid him not fail them, for they were in
new trouble. He could only get a word or two with Mr. Somerset then,
for there was fresh affliction there too, though it was but simple
affliction. Mr. Somerset’s old landlord had passed quietly away in the
night.

Tom found Lucy and Miss Latimer wrapped in big aprons, with dresses
tucked up, busily getting things into their accustomed routine. His
appearance reminded them of the expediency of dinner—a necessity which
women are too apt to forget for themselves. Mrs. Challoner commissioned
him to go and “order” some steak, but Tom said he should bring it, to
make sure of it, and armed himself with a black leather bag.

The butcher greeted him cheerily.

“Fine morning, sir. There, that’s a capital cut, just what Mrs.
Challoner will like. Take it yourself, did you say, sir? Well, as you
please.” And then the butcher gave his head a knowing wag, and said,
“Guess there’s trouble with that servant of yours? I reckoned there
would be. She was a queer one, that. A little off her chump, I should
say.”

“She’s run away,” said Tom, “but what did you ever see queer about her?”

The butcher laughed.

“I thought at first that she was a real old sort. Prime cut, as one
might say. And when she used to be a little faddy, I thought it was
just her particular goodness. She was always ready enough to pass the
time of day, and her and me were good friends—though I do remember she
did once ask me why I came knocking at her kitchen door and running
away, but I was busy that day, and let it pass as, maybe, her sort of
joke. But about a week ago, she asked me why I made faces at her; and
my missus spoke quite sharp to her, telling her not to put such stories
about. But last night, sir, I thought it was turning serious. For she
came into the shop and said I was a-putting poison on the meat—she
believed I had rubbed lucifer matches on it. I wasn’t here at the time,
and my missus was glad to say anything to pacify her, thinking she’d
been drinking—though she doesn’t look one of that sort.”

Tom stood aghast! Here, then, when and where nobody had thought of
looking for it, the whole mystery stood explained. Clementina was the
demented person who had sent the blank letter and the black-edged
letter. She had imagined the runaway knocks, and what else? Might not
the smashed china and the escaped gas be traced to the doings of the
same wild hand?

“If I were in your place,” went on the butcher, “I should be thankful
she has taken herself away. It’s my belief she is mad. There’s many a
one who, in the end, kills somebody, who has shown no more signs of it
beforehand. It ought to be somebody’s public duty to look after such
before they do mischief, if there’s nobody of their own that cares
enough for them to keep them out of harm’s way.”

Tom went home full of this news. It was very astonishing to Lucy, but
Miss Latimer was in a measure prepared for it, as she owned the idea
had already crossed her mind, though she little expected it would have
such swift corroboration.

Lucy’s first thought was an immense thankfulness that Hugh’s life had
been preserved from all risks; her second, a remembrance of the child’s
instinctive shrinking from Clementina; her third, a wave of pity for
this disordered mind, for there could be no lingering doubt that Dr.
Ivery’s diagnosis was correct.

“If she is insane,” said Lucy, “it is no blame of hers. We must think
only of what has become of her, and of how we should act on her behalf.
Knowing of her through Rachel, and hearing of her as a lonely woman
with no near relatives, I don’t know with whom to communicate, except
Rachel. Rachel may know something more. We must telegraph to her at
Bath.”

Rachel’s answer came quickly.

“Astonished. Gillespie, brother lives at Inverslain, Sutherland.
Relations in Hull, address unknown. My mistress very ill.”

There did not seem much help there. Presently Tom, glancing round the
dining-room, exclaimed—

“I do miss something! I miss the railway time-table which Mrs. Grant
left behind her. It was on the mantelshelf last night. Clementina has
taken it with her. She has gone somewhere by train!”

“Let us hope she has gone straight back to her own village,” said Miss
Latimer.

“We must at once telegraph to the brother,” insisted Lucy. “‘Gillespie,
Inverslain,’ does not seem much of an address to Londoners; but I
daresay it is a little place, and that he is known there.”

“There’s no Inverslain on any railway line,” Tom discovered, busily
turning over an old “Bradshaw.” Thereupon Lucy gave him a sovereign and
despatched him to the post office to discover how a sufficiently lucid
message could best reach a remote Highland hamlet, bidding him not
grudge any charge which might be made for porterage.

He brought her back her change, having had to make a liberal deduction
from the sovereign, since “Inverslain” was reported to be a tiny
Highland “clachan,” twelve miles from any telegraph office.

Tom had also bought an evening paper, and had privately scanned its
columns with great care to see whether they might contain any item
which could possibly refer to the hapless Clementina. He found none.
But he found something he did not expect, to wit, a paragraph relating
the finding of the spar and sail of the absentee _Slains Castle_. The
sad suggestion had now become public property.

Mr. Somerset had arrived in Pelham Street while Tom was at the
telegraph office. He and the two ladies discussed the conversation
which had gone on the evening before, and the probabilities of
Clementina having taken alarm at Tom’s idle suggestion that some of the
“professors” of “clairvoyance” should have a chance to cover themselves
with glory by discovering the origin of the mysteries. Of course, the
Highland woman’s own faith in second-sight and prenatural powers would
make such an idea very terrible to her, since she knew the mysteries
were of her own making.

“But if she be mad, could she realise this?” asked Lucy.

“Oh, dear, yes,” said Mr. Somerset. “You must remember that madness
seldom attacks the whole of the brain at once. Generally it leaves part
in perfect working order for awhile, so that those in ignorance of the
peculiar groove taken by the disease might long remain unwitting of it.
Generally, of course, the malady slowly increases its conquest, though
its progress may be very slow, and maybe occasionally arrested at
special stages. It is quite probable that Clementina may not remember
all she has done, and also that she may believe her actions to have
been quite intelligible and praiseworthy. Dr. Ivery explained all this
to me yesterday, when we had little idea where the trouble lay.”

They were sitting dismally enough taking their tea when a telegram
arrived. It was far too soon for it to be a possible response to Lucy’s
message to Inverslain. It was addressed to “Mrs. Challoner,” and by the
sudden flash of light and life across her face, the watchers could see
that a wild hope sprung up within her that it might concern the great
anxiety and sorrow which she was holding in such resolute silence. But
no. The light and life died out. Yet she said with a sigh of relief,
“Let us be thankful for this,” and handed the telegram to Mr. Somerset
who read aloud—

“‘Clementina Gillespie here. Very unwell. Will write to-morrow about
box and wages.—Micklewrath, Dock Street, Hull.’”

“Then she is safe with those relations of whom Rachel telegraphed,”
said Miss Latimer, drawing a long breath. “At any rate, the terrible
responsibility is removed from us.”

Lucy had already risen from the table and gone to her desk.

“I must now write an explanatory note to the people at Inverslain and
tell where their sister is,” she said. “It will still be in time to
catch the night mail, so it will follow hard after the telegram.”

“She is thinking of the relatives’ anxiety and distress; these Hull
people are thinking only of a ‘box’ and ‘wages,’” whispered Tom aside
to Mr. Somerset.

“Well,” whispered Mr. Somerset, “what would you have? It’s hard that
everybody is not like her, that’s all. We would not wish her to be as
so many are.”

“It is so good of the Institute people to let me stay away awhile,”
said Lucy. “How could I have gone there to-morrow with nobody at home
to do anything for us? Now I shall be free to do my own work till I
can get some arrangement made.”

She did not speak of relief from labour because of the aching yearning
of her heart. That would not have kept her from work. She would have
asked, “Why should it?” If Charlie were really gone, then her toil was
more needed than ever, and if she stopped it to mourn for him, when
would she begin again, for when would she cease to mourn? When would
she be able to draw a line and say, “Henceforth I can endure”? No,
her endurance must begin at once. She did not feel this in herself as
strength, she thought rather this was a weakness that dared not pause
lest it should never be able to recommence!

“We will go on together, my dear,” Miss Latimer assured her. “We women,
who have known the great common bond of working for our bread, will
surely stand by each other.”

“I wish Charlie was here to thank you,” she answered. Her face was
calm and her voice was sweet, but no tears nor lamentations could have
conveyed such an impression of agony.

“I know now how the martyrs smiled on the rack,” said Tom, as he walked
home with Mr. Somerset.

“I never thought that I should wish to see a woman cry,” answered
that gentleman, “but I am sure that tears would be a blessing to Mrs.
Challoner now.”

(_To be continued._)




[Illustration]




USEFUL CANTATAS AND OPERETTAS FOR GIRLS.


Once upon a time, at the midnight hour, it is supposed that the
denizens of the doll’s house, including the lady doll, “Lady Angelina
de Montmorency,” the gentleman doll, “Lord Jennings,” the Vivandière,
little Bo-peep, the wooden Soldier, and Mr. Noah, all woke up and
aired their experiences and grievances in song and speeches of a merry
character, which were at once taken down by Mr. W. Yardley and Mr.
Cotsford Dick, and transmitted to posterity under the title of “Our
Toys” (J. Williams), libretto, 6d., and vocal score, 1s. 6d.

This is really a very amusing “fairy vision in one peep,” and likely to
suit any brothers home from school as well as big and little sisters.

Here is a specimen of its wit, treating of the wooden Soldier—

    “His wooden stand which bore him well
      Was broken in a fight,
    And so he like a soldier fell,
      As he couldn’t stand upright.
    They laid the vet’ran on the shelf,
      Secure from further knocks,
    And he’s got his company all to himself,
      For he is the last of the box.”

The dressing of the characters of this airy little piece might be very
bright and effective, and not difficult to manage at all.

A musical play for young girls, easily acted in a room, is “Elsa’s
Fairy,” by Myles B. Foster (Boosey, 1s.). Pleasant singable solos
are interspersed with as attractive choruses, No. 1, in nine-eight
time, being especially pretty. The prose part has a little plot of
interest to small girls, and the pianoforte accompaniments and pleasing
interludes are simple and good, making the whole a very useful little
piece indeed. Ordinary dress only is required.

“A Spring Morning,” composed of a three-part chorus, trio, soprano
solo, chorus, and a chorus “Epilogue” is a most artistic short idyll,
by A. E. Horrocks (J. Williams), well calculated to suit sweet and
refined voices for drawing-room performance. Little power is required,
but all must be gracefully rendered, and a result may be secured which
is happy in the extreme. The introduction prepares our minds suitably
for the words of May Byron (May Gillington of yore), whose name,
together with that of another of our best versifiers, Helen Marion
Burnside, is a guarantee of all that is good for girls to sing or read.

The choral dances (in 1s. book) of “Prince Sprite,” a fairy operetta,
by Florence A. Marshall, makes a remarkably bright, cheery suite,
consisting of melodious minuet, waltzes, and galop, in two-part
choruses.

The plot of “Thyra” is laid on the sea-coast of Norway, amidst
fisher-girls and spirits of good and spirits of evil. It is a
more intricate operetta-cantata in one act, by Algernon H. Lindo
(Willcocks), and it boasts of duettinos, trio, and recitatives of an
operatic description, in addition to solos and choruses. Then there
are two cantatas treating of fairy folk (both with two-part choruses),
namely, “A Woodland Dream,” by J. A. Moonie (2s., Novello), which is
exceedingly pretty throughout, with a very pleasing opening chorus and
epilogue, elegant little dances and nice accompaniments, which can
also be had for a small orchestra. This admits of the assistance of
numbers of fays, gnomes, and fairies, who have nothing much to do but
to look pretty; only two soprano soloists and one mezzo or contralto
are required.

The other one is “In Dreamland,” by Clement Locknane (Houghton, 2s.
6d.), the opening chorus also being especially melodious; soloists,
three soprani and one mezzo. It has dances, too, and orchestral parts.

A more ambitious cantata, requiring eight soloists, is “The Marsh
King’s Daughter” (Cocks, 2s. 6d.); the words adapted poetically from
Hans Andersen’s tale by May Gillington, set to music of a suitable and
romantic character by Angelo Mascheroni. This is a very interesting
little composition indeed, and well worth working at thoroughly by
older girls. It is full of abundant possibilities of pleasing an
audience.

A cantata by Arthur Page, called “The Snow Queen” (Forsyth), is very
clearly printed and prettily bound for 1s. 6d. only. This is much
easier and for much younger girls; the libretto, by Bernard Page, is
suggested by another story of Hans Andersen’s, and the characters are
two children, Gerda and Kay, the Snow Queen, White Rose, Red Rose,
and chorus of Snowflakes and Roses, all pretty and simple to dress
effectively. These choruses are so bright and lively. We could weave
long stories of the plots and descriptive music of these recent little
works, but space only permits of our pointing out some of the best,
which any girls wanting to find a special kind for performance, could
ask to look at and try over from their music-sellers.

    MARY AUGUSTA SALMOND.




THREE GIRL-CHUMS, AND THEIR LIFE IN LONDON ROOMS.

BY FLORENCE SOPHIE DAVSON.


CHAPTER IX.

THE PROSPECT OF A CHANGE.

A week before Jane and Ada returned to town, a letter came from Marion
which filled Jane with dismay and showed Ada’s prognostications to be
true. In this letter Marion announced her engagement to Mr. Tom Scott
and the consequent breaking up of the household of “The Rowans.” Mr.
Scott was returning to India in November and Marion was to accompany
him. In the meanwhile she was with Mrs. Holden at Oban; in the course
of a week or two she was to go to her own home until her marriage,
which was to take place the last week in October.

“Dear Marion, how we shall miss her! Jennie, how will you and I get on
without her?” said Ada.

“I don’t know,” said Jane tearfully. “I don’t want to be selfish, but
I can’t imagine how we will manage. I suppose we shall have to live on
aerated dainties or go to a boarding-house. Oh dear, oh dear! just as
we were so happy,” and Jane’s usually cheerful face got very woe-begone
and lugubrious.

Ada seemed to take the matter more calmly. She had been looking
very handsome of late and seemed wonderfully contented with things
in general. As she wrote to Marion when congratulating her on her
approaching marriage, “it is delightful to be amongst one’s friends
new and old.” She was very much sought after at the tennis parties and
picnics which were so plentiful in the Foxholme neighbourhood at this
season of the year, but she was rather difficult of approach and kept
most of her admirers at a distance; at least, so the rector remarked to
Jane on the day after a certain little outing.

“I wish that Mr. Redfern would keep his distance then,” returned Jane
vindictively; at which the rector looked thoughtful.

One day Mrs. Oldham found poor Jane sobbing in the schoolroom, leaning
her head disconsolately on a pile of Miss Edgeworth’s _Moral Tales_.

“My darling child, whatever is the matter?”

“Oh, Aunt Joan, I am so miserable, I don’t know what I shall do.”

By degrees Mrs. Oldham calmed her and induced her to tell her what was
the matter.

“I was in the kitchen-garden just now,” said Jane, sobbing, “and Ada
came along the other side of the wall, and Mr. Redfern was walking
with her. She did not see me, neither did he, and I did not stay a
minute; but I am quite sure from the way he was speaking that he had
been asking her to marry him, and she—oh, I don’t believe she said she
wouldn’t!”

Mrs. Oldham could hardly help laughing, but managed to refrain.

“But, my dear, why should she say she would not? Mr. Redfern is very
nice and so are all his family. I have known them for some time. I
always thought dear Ada just suited to become a clergyman’s wife. He
has a nice little private income of his own, so there will be no need
for a long engagement, which is always rather trying, I think. You,
poor thing, of course, you feel the idea of losing both Ada and Marion
Thomas, but we shall look after you. Uncle and I will arrange something
nice. Don’t be afraid that we shall let you live in a boarding-house by
yourself,” and she patted Jane’s hands and dried her eyes and kissed
her.

In the course of a day or two her uncle called her into the study, an
old wainscoted room that looked on to the kitchen-garden. He made her
sit down in the rocking-chair while he discussed the plan that he and
Mrs. Oldham had contrived.

“I have been wanting to have cooking taught in my schools for some
time,” he began; “but there was a difficulty about getting a teacher.
At last I have got four or five other villages to join with me, and by
using the old brewhouse as a kitchen and making our village the centre,
I think we shall manage very well. We shall be quite ready to begin
at Christmas. You will live here. Of course, we shall be delighted to
have you, whereas there would have been a difficulty about putting up a
stranger. You will not earn quite as much as you earned in town, but on
the other hand your expenses will be very much less, as you will have
no boarding expenses to pay.”

Jane was overjoyed at this arrangement, and after thanking the kind
rector warmly, flew to tell Ada, who was most thankful to hear of it,
for Jane’s future had been weighing on her mind ever since her own
engagement.

“Of course, you will always spend your holidays with us, darling,” she
said, and in this she was warmly seconded by Mr. Redfern.

So Jane recovered her spirits, and lest the household should think
her a “Niobe—all tears,” turned her interest with energy to the
housekeeping, and at Mrs. Oldham’s request arranged the meals for a
week, choosing all the dishes and helping to prepare several herself.
Here is the list of dinners. She said she found it a most delightful
change not to have to be very economical over the eggs.

_Sunday._

    Jardinière Soup.
    Braised Leg of Mutton (cold).
    Salad.
    Plum Tart.
    Curd Cheesecakes.

_Monday._

    Hash in Piquante Sauce.
    Boiled Chicken and Cucumber Sauce.
    Curd Cheesecakes.
    Rice Pudding.

_Tuesday._

    Curry Soup.
    Roast Bullock’s Heart.
    Boiled Roly Poly.

_Wednesday._

    Hake with Brown Sauce.
    Mince.
    Veal Cutlets.
    Pancakes with Chocolate Sauce.

_Thursday._

    Roast Ribs of Beef.
    Artichokes and Cheese Sauce.
    Boiled Fruit Pudding.

_Friday._

    Tomato Soup.
    Cold Beef.
    Baked Potatoes.
    Beans à la Flamande.
    Bakewell Pudding.

_Saturday._

    Roast Mutton.
    Rice Snow.

Here are the recipes for some of the dishes. The jardinière soup and
the braised mutton were one dish divided into two parts, and were
cooked on the previous day. We give the recipe for both dishes in one.

_Braised Leg of Mutton._—Take a large lettuce, two carrots, one turnip,
two onions, two tomatoes, a blade of mace, two bay-leaves, a small
piece of cinnamon, a teaspoonful of celery seed tied in muslin, a
dessertspoonful of salt, and twelve peppercorns. Wash and slice the
vegetables and arrange them in layers with the herbs and spices at the
bottom of a large fish-kettle. Lay the leg of mutton on this bed of
vegetables and pour two quarts of water over. Put on the lid and set
the fish-kettle by the side of the stove for seven hours, turning the
meat over when half done and basting it with the liquor from time to
time. Do not let it boil. Remove the leg of mutton without sticking a
fork in it, put it on a dish and let it get cold. Strain off the liquor
in which the mutton was cooked into a basin, and when it cools skim off
the fat. Shred a few slices of carrot, onion, and turnip and cook them
separately. Re-heat the liquor and add them when it is hot. Serve the
liquor and the freshly-cooked vegetables as jardinière soup, and the
leg of mutton cold with a salad.

_Hash with Piquante Sauce._—Slice an onion and put it in a small
saucepan with two tablespoonfuls of vinegar and one of mushroom
ketchup; put on the lid and simmer by the side of the stove until the
onion is tender; pour in half a pint of stock and half a teaspoonful
of salt; thicken with an ounce of brown thickening, add a teaspoonful
of red currant jelly and one of chutney; put in a sufficient number of
slices of cold meat and let them heat gently for an hour in the sauce.
Serve very hot.

_Cucumber Sauce for Boiled Chicken._—Pare and slice a large cucumber
and remove the seeds; cook until tender in a pint of milk with a pinch
of salt and four white peppercorns, and then rub through a hair sieve.
Return to the saucepan, add a piece of butter rubbed in as much flour
as it will take up, and stir until it boils.

_Curd Cheesecakes._—Line some patty pans with good flaky pastry. Boil
half a pint of milk with two ounces of castor sugar. Drain away the
whey and beat the curd in a basin with three large eggs and an ounce
of butter. Put some currants in each patty pan and a spoonful of the
mixture on the top; bake twenty minutes in a good oven. The whey can be
used to flavour custards.

_Roast Bullock’s Heart._—Well wash the heart in warm water and salt.
Cut away the pipes and trim away most of the fat; cut the thick wall
that divides the middle of the heart. Put the heart in a saucepan of
cold water, bring this slowly to the boil and throw the water away;
this is to blanch it. Make a stuffing of half a pound of breadcrumbs,
two tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of chopped mint
and marjoram, a small onion chopped, and two ounces of finely-chopped
suet; bind this all together with beaten egg and a little good gravy;
season well with pepper and salt, and stuff the heart with it. Lay it
on a dripping-tin and put plenty of dripping on the top; lay a piece
of greased paper over and roast in a rather slow oven for an hour and
a half; heat the oven and cook for another half-hour to brown well. If
cooked quickly all the while, the heart will be hard. When done put on
a hot dish; pour off the dripping and pour half a pint of stock into
the tin; add an ounce of brown thickening and a dessertspoonful of
ketchup and boil up. Pour this gravy round the heart.

_Chocolate Sauce for Pancakes._—Make some pancakes in the usual way,
and before each one is rolled up, spread a spoonful of the following
sauce on each:—

Put two ounces of chocolate on a tin in the oven to get soft, and then
stir it into half a pint of warm milk. The chocolate used must be of
the best quality; beat until smooth. Mix a tablespoonful of cornflour
with a little cold milk; bring the chocolate and milk to the boil, stir
in the cornflour and let the sauce thicken; add a very little brown
colouring, and use.

_Artichokes with Cheese Sauce._—Well wash some globe artichokes; cut
off the coarse outer leaves and boil them for three hours until the
leaves come out easily. It is best to float a plate over them to keep
them under water. Drain and serve with the following sauce handed in a
sauceboat:—

_Cheese Sauce._—Boil half a pink of milk with an ounce of butter; mix
an ounce of flour with a little cold milk and stir it in; stir in by
degrees two ounces of grated cheese; stir and boil well.

_Beans à la Flamande._—Shred some French beans and cook them in weak
stock with the lid off the saucepan and a sprig of mint with them. When
tender, drain off the stock. Put a small piece of fresh butter in the
saucepan, with a dessertspoonful of chopped onion and one of chopped
and blanched parsley. Toss the whole well together and serve very hot.

_Rice Snow._—Boil a teacupful of rice very gently in a pint of milk
until the rice has absorbed all the milk. Separate the whites and yolks
of two eggs. Take the rice off the fire and beat in the two yolks; add
two tablespoonfuls of castor sugar and a few drops of vanilla. Pour
into a buttered pie dish; whip up the whites of the eggs with a little
castor sugar and pile on the top of the pudding; put in a moderate oven
for twenty minutes. Eat hot or cold.

When the Orlingburys got back to town, they found “The Rowans” a very
changed place without Marion. She was not coming back there at all, so
they had to make their daily plans as they best could without her.
They found it simpler, now that there were only two of them, to give
up the late dinner and have early dinner out in the middle of the
day. This Jane could easily arrange at her cookery school. It was the
easiest thing in the world to cook a chop, or, selecting a nice clean
little girl who took a great interest in her lessons, to put her to
make a diminutive pie or a steak pudding, and to cook a small quantity
of vegetables. Ada took her dinner at a “Lyon’s” shop or some similar
establishment near to the office. They both had a good high tea when
they returned at about half-past six, and our old friend Abigail was
by this time sufficiently experienced to prepare this for them. On
Saturdays Jane generally cooked a piece of gammon of bacon, ham, or
pickled pork to last for breakfasts for the week. Mrs. Oldham kept them
well supplied with eggs.

For the high tea they had one dish only that needed cooking. Jane was
always able and willing to bring any cakes or scones that were required
back from the cookery school.

(_To be concluded._)




ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.


GIRLS’ EMPLOYMENTS.

AN ANXIOUS WAITER (_Bank Clerkship_).—In the Bank of England, and
in one or two other banks in London, girls are employed as clerks,
but in each case it is necessary for the would-be clerk to obtain a
director’s nomination. If you have any relations or friends employed
at the Bank of England, or at Messrs. Rothschild’s or Baring’s banks,
it would be advisable to make your wish known to them, and to ask
whether they could give you an introduction to a director. You write
a neat clear hand, which is an important advantage for clerical work.
Should you fail in these quarters, you might apply to the Prudential
Life Assurance Company, High Holborn. Otherwise we recommend you to
work hard at shorthand, type-writing, and book-keeping, as, if you
could make yourself really competent in these three branches of work,
you would have no difficulty at present in obtaining employment,
notwithstanding the melancholy accounts that clerks give of the
“overcrowdedness” of their business. The majority of unsuccessful
clerks either possess none of the accomplishments we have enumerated,
or only possess one or two of them imperfectly.

YELLOW CROCUS (_Qualifications of a Clerk or Secretary_).—These are,
a clear neat handwriting—yours, by the way, though excellent in other
respects, covers rather too much space—impeccable type-writing, rapid
shorthand, and, if possible, some knowledge of a modern language. A
good general English education ought to be indispensable, and though we
cannot say that it is so, it makes the difference between a permanently
low salary and promotion. From your letter we infer that you have had a
good education; it therefore only remains to study the subjects we have
mentioned. Many thanks for your kindly expressed wishes for the future
of the “G. O. P.” It is interesting to learn that you, in common with
so many of our readers, have derived pleasure from THE GIRL’S OWN PAPER
since its first appearance.

S. B. F. (_Laundry Manageress_).—We are glad to see that you
corroborate the advice we constantly give to girls to learn the laundry
business in all its branches. The vacancy you mention you might try to
fill by applying to the Central Bureau for the Employment of Women, 60,
Chancery Lane, though it is not always easy, as you know, to find girls
possessed of the requisite trade experience. For the benefit of some of
our readers we will quote a passage from your letter—“I can assure you
on behalf of my colleagues in the trade that there is a great demand
for women of fair education, who are sober, trustworthy, and able to
take the oversight of the work in laundries. The great failings of
nearly all capable laundry manageresses are drink and a low standard of
morals, especially as regards honesty; and if a woman of superiority
went in for the work, she would never lack a good berth, as all the
hard work in laundries is now done by men.” We quote what you tell us
with the more satisfaction in view of the statement sometimes made by
ill-informed persons that girls are likely to be ousted by men from
the laundry trade. The demand for expert and honest laundresses and
manageresses was manifestly never greater than it is at present.

IDA (_Book-keeping_).—If you wish to learn book-keeping by double entry
in a thorough manner, you should attend classes at some technical
institute in your neighbourhood. Were you living in London, we should
advise you to join the Birkbeck Institute, Bream’s Buildings, Chancery
Lane, or the Regent Street Polytechnic. Many excellent handbooks have
been published on the subject, by the aid of which every determined
and persevering girl could master the subject alone; but, of course,
lessons in class make the difficulties much more readily surmountable.

FATHERLESS LASSIE (_Additional Work_).—As your present work consists in
taking orders for a business firm, would it not be wiser to increase
your utility in this line of work than to supplement your earnings with
your needle, as you suggest? In these days it is almost always best
to specialise, that is to say, to become peculiarly efficient in some
one department of work. Now, if you could make yourself a thoroughly
capable clerk, and could master as much about the coal trade, in which
you are engaged, as it is in your power to learn, you would have the
preference over an inexperienced girl for any better post in a coal
order office later. Work hard at book-keeping and type-writing, and
attend any good business classes that may be held in your neighbourhood.

OLIVE (_Laundry-Work, etc._).—It appears doubtful from what you
say concerning your health whether you would be strong enough for
laundry-work; but it is quite certain that intellectual work is too
severe for you, and it would be wise to give up the latter at once. We
know too many teachers who break down under the strain in middle life
to advise any girl to persevere who has already found the profession
so trying as you have done. If you attempt laundry-work, you might
take a year’s training at some large steam-laundry (such as the
London and Provincial Steam-Laundry, Battersea Park Road, S.W.), and
afterwards try to start a hand-laundry, or to join someone in such an
enterprise. But we fear the regular business of a steam-laundry would
prove fully as trying to you as teaching. Consequently the best posts
in the laundry business might always be beyond your reach. Dairy-work
seems more likely to suit you, together perhaps with some other forms
of country occupation, such as the care of poultry. It would be worth
considering whether you should not go to the Agricultural College,
Reading, unless you could obtain good instruction in some County
Council classes in your own part of England.

MURIEL (_Dressmaking, etc._).—1. Unless you have friends in Paris
with whom you could stay, we should not advise you to try to enter a
dressmaking firm in that city. It is possible that the Secretary of the
Foreign Registry, Girls’ Friendly Society, 10, Holbein Place, Sloane
Square, S.W., could advise you in the matter; but probably the best
firms might have no vacancy for an English girl, and the less good
might prove to be extremely undesirable. It would be far wiser, in our
opinion, to apprentice yourself to a London firm, concerning which your
relations and friends could make the requisite inquiries.—2. On the
subject of voice-production you should inquire of some large bookseller
whether a volume was not published by the late M. Emile Behnke, who was
a great authority. We think you will find that such a book exists.

ANOTHER ANXIOUS MOTHER (_Dispensing_).—This occupation offers fair
chances of a livelihood to a girl, as not only are medical men often
willing to employ a woman as dispenser in their private dispensaries,
but various hospitals have women dispensers, and there are many
localities in which women might establish dispensaries of their own.
The Pharmacy Act requires that a pupil should study for three years.
The time may be spent either in working under a qualified chemist,
or in the dispensary of some institution. Several lady chemists and
dispensers now take pupils, and addresses of these could be obtained by
applying to the Secretary of the Pharmaceutical Society, 17, Bloomsbury
Square, London, or to the Secretary, London School of Medicine for
Women, Arundel Street, W.C. The total expense of the course, including
apprenticeship and examination fees ranges from £100 to £130. In this
estimate board and lodging are not, of course, included. Your daughter
would probably be advised to wait a year or two before beginning the
course, as she is still so young.


MEDICAL.

M. J. GRAY.—We discussed the question of the best hydropathic
establishments for rheumatism a few weeks ago. In England, Harrowgate,
with its sulphurous waters, is the most generally useful. But living
at any of the hydropathic stations is expensive, and the English ones
are about the most expensive of all. It is rather difficult for us to
answer your question because we never advise any person to go “to take
waters” unless her income is above the average, so we cannot tell you
(at all events, not in this column), what a stay at any of the stations
would cost. Aix-la-Chapelle, Barèges, Harrowgate, Kissingen, Carlsbad,
Contrèxeville, Homburg, Marienbad, Selters, Vais and Vichy, are the
springs most generally used. If you cannot afford a stay at one of
these places, you may derive some benefit from taking the waters at
home. Nowadays all these waters are exported. But the benefit of taking
the waters at home is not comparable with the value of a stay at the
place where they came from, probably not because the waters degenerate,
but because the strict regimen and the good effects of travel are
absent.

FIFTEEN STONE.—The latest thing for excessive obesity is extract of
the thyroid gland. The preparation chiefly used is “thyroglandin,”
and is made from the thyroid gland of the sheep. We cannot say at
present whether this treatment is going to be of any value, but we are
investigating its action. Like all animal extracts, thyroid is a very
powerful drug, and sometimes gives rise to very alarming symptoms. If
it is going to be valuable, it will only be used for very marked cases
of obesity.

SIMPLE SUSAN.—Certainly round shoulders can be remedied by gymnastic
exercises. The best of these are the dumb-bells or clubs—but light
bells and light clubs. Half an hour’s exercise or less every morning
before breakfast. Dumb-bells should not weigh more than two pounds
apiece.

GRANDMAMMA.—Eczema is exceedingly common on the legs where varicose
veins are present. The treatment is mainly that of the veins. Locally
calamine ointment is very useful.

ANOTHER ANXIOUS ONE.—1. Yes. Follow the advice that we gave to “Mary
Noble.” We fear there is not much prospect of cure in your case. We
have never found the chloride of ammonia inhaler of any value; now we
never use it.—2. Wash your feet in warm water and borax every evening,
and look to your boots. Almost every complaint of the feet is due to
misshapen boots.

MATRON.—A jagged tooth in the jaws of a woman aged fifty is a most
undesirable thing. The “white patch” upon your tongue is caused, as
you know, by the tooth. If you let the tooth remain in your head, that
“white patch” will become a cancer. Go to a dentist and have the tooth
out at once. Do not delay, for in a short time it will be too late.

MIRIAM.—Obviously your toothache is due to the decayed teeth. You
must have these thoroughly seen to, either stopped or else removed,
according to their condition. Toothache is an inflammation of the pulp
of the tooth; the pain is due to pressure upon the nerves. The reason
why pain is so severe in inflammation of a tooth is because the pulp
cavity is an unyielding structure, and so the nerves are compressed
between the “matter” formed by the inflammation and the wall of the
cavity.

UVULA.—We discussed the causes of bad breath at some length a short
while ago. Your trouble is doubtless due to the double cause of bad
teeth and an unhealthy condition of the nose. As you are going to do
the right thing and have your teeth seen to, we need not say much
about this. But as regards your nose, you have a condition which is
unfortunately exceedingly common among young women. It is a most
difficult disease to eradicate, but with care can be kept in check, and
the offensive smell altogether banished. Use as a spray or wash, and
also as a gargle, four times a day, the following lotion:—bicarbonate
of soda, 200 grains; carbolic acid, 30 grains; glycerine, one ounce,
and water to the pint. Use the lotion warm. Afterwards apply to the
interior of the nose, with the little finger, benzoated zinc ointment,
and apply this ointment many other times a day.

UVEA.—Enlarged uvula is a common complaint. It gives rise to cough and
other signs of throat irritation. Rarely is the uvula enlarged without
other parts of the throat being unhealthy. The best treatment for an
enlarged uvula is to have part of it cut away. Failing this, painting
the uvula with menthol in paraleine, or better, with glycerine of
tannic acid, will reduce its size.

[Illustration: “THE BRIDE.” (_Gladiolus Colvillei Alba._)]


MISCELLANEOUS.

EDIE.—We prefer not to give recommendations as to the use of cosmetics.
Unless analytical chemists, we could not say of what they are composed;
unless skin-doctors, we could not pronounce of their efficacy, nor even
their harmlessness; and unless we were personally acquainted with you,
we could form no idea of what would suit your individual case. A recipe
of the Empress Josephine’s has been found, and it appears that she used
to pour boiling milk over a basinful of violets, with which she bathed
her face and neck every morning. This very simple bath is used by
French ladies to this day, from the time they discovered the treatment
adopted by the Empress, so beautiful in complexion, and an enormous
trade in this flower, and for this purpose, is carried on in Paris at
this present time. We think it wrong to waste so much milk.

IRENE.—Situations of this kind, as nurse or maid for the one voyage,
are generally obtained by advertisement in a daily paper, or perhaps in
one of the weeklies which deal with the subject, such as the _Queen_.
No remuneration perhaps in some cases, or very little. This would be,
of course, a subject for personal agreement. But there are many people
who advertise themselves as willing to give their services, their
passage-money being paid.

GOOSIE GANDER.—1. If an assumed name or pseudonym be sent with a
manuscript, the sender should also include his or her real name and
address.—2. The length of stories is in accordance with what the Editor
needs, and a story should not be difficult to shorten, or, in the
reverse case, to lengthen, if required.

OMENICA.—Jackets are all worn short this year in England, as well as
elsewhere. Our personal opinion is that the constant use of files,
knives, and all steel instruments to the nails is very detrimental to
their beauty. The habit of pushing down the quick round the nail with
an instrument, or even cutting it away, is a very bad one. It should be
gently pushed down with the wet towel when the hands are washed. Indeed
most of the cleaning can be done in this way. The nails should be cut
in a rounded form, and should never be permitted to extend beyond the
top of the finger itself; and filing them at the sides would be foolish
and unnecessary too.

UNGRACEFUL PIGEON AND OTHERS.—Judging from your letters, you each and
all need a course of gymnastics. This would probably make “Pigeon”
grow a little also. There are five systems of gymnastic exercises—the
German, Swedish, military, English, and those of Miss Chreiman.
Gymnastic classes are held in London at Board schools, polytechnics,
Young Women’s Christian Associations, High schools, and at many other
places; so, by inquiry, you can very easily find a place. Then there is
swimming, which is a capital exercise, the training for which can be
had in many places in London. You might like that better perhaps. The
terms are very moderate.

JESSICA.—Write a separate answer for those of your party who refuse the
invitation. If not a very special one, where the number would make a
difference, or if uncertain, accept for all on one card, and apologise
for those absent as you enter and greet your hostess.

GLADYS.—We suppose you know the glass bottles that are sold for
fly-catching. In America what is known as the feverfew, queen’s daisy,
or pyrethrum, is thought to keep flies away. You might try a few pots
of that. It may be either grown from seed, or can be obtained at a
nurseryman’s. Darkness is one of the best remedies against flies, and
so the more shaded you can keep your windows the better and the darker
the shop on a bright day.

SISTER EDITH.—Not admitted under twenty-one years of age, we should
think; but we can find no limit of age. Deaconesses must be under
thirty-five years of age when admitted.

IGNORANT ONE.—1. For a seed cake the following, from a well-known
cookery book, is excellent and cheap. Rub six ounces of butter into
three-quarters of a pound of flour, add a pinch of salt, five ounces
of the best moist sugar, and a dessertspoonful of caraway seed.
Dissolve half a small teaspoonful of soda in a teaspoonful of hot
milk. Beat up this with two eggs, already well beaten, and stir the
whole into the cake. Put the mixture into a buttered tin, and bake in
a moderately-heated oven—from thirty to forty minutes will suffice.—2.
Hyacinth bulbs deteriorate after the first year, and would not do for
water after planting in the ground.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Transcriber’s note—the following changes have been made to this text:

Page 779: scence to scene—“upon the scene”.

Page 784: unhealthly to unhealthy—“being unhealthy”.]


*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE GIRL'S OWN PAPER, VOL. XX, NO.
1027, SEPTEMBER 2, 1899 ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
